# Malachai's Journal vol. 1

Hello, journal. I've never kept a diary before, but the damned Hendrakes have
given me writing materials and I have nothing else to do in this hell-hole
but watch my cilia wiggle. Maybe they think they can get something out of me
by reading this that I haven't already told them. But there is nothing
more. They have taken everything.

Perhaps I should introduce myself. I am Captain Malachai Tamberlin of His
Majesty's Own 2nd Imperial Lancers. Perhaps formerly of the Lancers--even if
I were to escape and somehow make my way back to Amber, I don't think they
would accept an officer with tentacles. Is there still an Amber? I think that
bitch Dulnea said Amber had been conquered, but that may have been an
hallucination. I haven't been thinking clearly, what with the drugs and the
torture and the mind probes and the sleep deprivation and who knows what else
they do when I am unconscious or raving.

I must apologize for this rambling. I am not entirely myself, in more ways
than one.  But I shall do a proper job and start at the beginning. As a babe
I was apparently dropped at the doorstep of a Unicorn Temple in Amber by an
anonymous donor. I grew up in St. Cymnea's orphanage. They gave me a decent
education and a lot of discipline. At seventeen, with no better prospects,
I joined the army. I was a big, healthy lad with good reflexes, so I got
along well enough. After six months and a rather tiresome campaign in
Shadow I made corporal. I began thinking about my career and noticed that
cavalry troopers got to ride instead of slogging in mud, wore interesting
uniforms, and appeared to be very popular with women. That was for me.

I cultivated a few friends in the cavalry, including a sergeant name Dodd. He
was a friendly fellow with a severe case of halitosis. I bought Dodd drinks,
listened to his rambling stories, recommended a certain brand of mouth wash,
and introduced him to several lady friends. In return, he taught me to ride
and to fence. When Dodd came up with what he thought was his own idea of
sponsoring me to the Lancers, I could only agree that it would be a good
career move.

Once in the cavalry, I spent the next forty years in a series of campaigns
and cadre billets in various Golden Circle kingdoms. I spent relatively
little time in Amber, but got to experience many people and
places. Gradually, I worked my way from trooper through NCO. After a
particularly nasty battle at Salamis where I found myself choosing chancy
heroism over certain slaughter, I received an officer's commission and an
award of arms. For my device I chose azure a bend sinister argent between two
eagles stooping or.

After another forty years, I had advanced to my present rank of Captain. By
then I had acquired a certain reputation of which I am not entirely proud. I
gambled rather more than I should, although I did generally manage to at
least break even. I was popular with ladies and several times made the
mistake of being caught in compromising circumstances with married
women. This led to the third characteristic of my reputation--as a duelist. I
must assure you that I am an even-tempered person who does not easily take
offense. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same of certain others who have been
less than charitable in accepting my explanations for the innocent but
perhaps excessively friendly flirtations that I engaged in with certain
respectable ladies.  It is fortunate that I am blessed with strength and
quickness, for without such talents I might have found my career cut quickly
short.

Following a particularly harrowing affair of honor with a gentleman who
simply would not accept my protestations that a gift to his wife was platonic
in nature, I decided to pursue formal training in swordsmanship. After I had
tried and rejected several inferior teachers, my good friend Sergeant Dodd
directed me to Master Ottaviano. It was rumored that, as a young man, Otto
had been a member of Prince Benedict's personal guard. When I met him he was
blind in one eye and lame in one leg, but he knew the strengths and
weaknesses of every style of fencing known in Amber, a city with the best
fencers of any dimension. He was a hard teacher, and he charged exorbitantly,
but he was worth it. Every time I saw him I learned something that I could
think about and practice for weeks. Whenever I was in Amber and solvent I
spent the bulk of my time training with Otto, who eventually admitted that I
was as talented a swordsman as he had ever seen outside the Royal family.

By my hundred and fiftieth year I believe I had the respect of the whole
regiment and was beginning to be known in the Court. The cavalry squadron I
commanded consistently won awards both on the parade ground and in
battle. The regimental commander, Colonel Prospero, regularly accepted my
advice regarding troop disposition, promotions, tactics, and logistics. I was
looking forward to what looked like an inevitable promotion to Colonel when
I had my unfortunate run-in with Prince Eric.

 * * *

Excuse me, journal, for the pause in writing. I would guess the delay to be
several days, if this place had days. I don't know how long I have been in
this prison, but it feels like a year at least. Perhaps this is a place where
time runs quickly and not so long has passed in Amber.  Anyway, they took me
from my cell and brought me before Dulnea, the icy warrior- sorceress who
captured me. She again asked me questions about my origins, and I again
insisted that I never knew my parents. She began to wave her arms and some
telekinetic spell lifted me into the air. I felt my left side, the side with
the tentacles and cilia, twist and squirm in modulation with her motions. At
her command, a thing that is not my arm wrapped itself around my throat and
squeezed.

"Enough lies," she spat. "You are not of Shadow; you are real, though without
the imprint of Pattern. What do you know of Oberon?"

"I can't breathe!" I said. Actually, what I said was "Urk!" but I think my
meaning was clear. The tentacle loosened and I could breathe a little. What
had she meant by, `not of Shadow?'  I felt her bore again into my head,
ripping the structure of my mind apart in an apparently fruitless search
for something that was not there.

"What are you hiding?" she demanded.

"Noth...Urk!" The tentacle tightened again, and I lost consciousness. I
remember a series of dreams or hallucinations. Perhaps real. Strange tubes
inserted into me, fluids drawn and others injected, leering demon faces,
peculiar devices poking and observing me.  I awoke in my cell several hours
ago, a quivering mass. Do you know what it is like to awaken, feverish, with
a slimy, wriggling thing crawling across your face, and then realize that the
thing is part of you? I am amazed that, so far as I can tell, I am only
somewhat mad.

`You are not of Shadow; you are real,' she said. That explains their interest
in me. The only way I know of to be truly not of Shadow is to be a descendant
of King Oberon.  Like anyone of uncertain parentage in Amber, I have always
rather hoped it were so.  After all, like the Royals, I am blessed with
excellent strength, quickness, and constitution. Probably she was
lying. But if it were so, then whose son am I? I am tall, with dark hair and
blue eyes. Deirdre? It seems unlikely that a Princess would bear a child and
then abandon it. Eric? I hope not! Corwin? Perhaps Corwin. He disappeared
from Amber sometime around the time of my birth. I have admired his tenacity
in fighting his way up Kolvir, his defiance in crowning himself before his
enemies, and his resourcefulness in escaping from the castle after having his
eyes burned from his head.  If you are my father, Corwin, I hope to meet you
one day. Hell, I hope to meet anyone not of this foul place.

 * * *

I have strayed excessively from recounting the past in favor of dwelling upon
the present. I was about to describe my nearly fatal encounter with Prince
Eric. At that time Oberon had been gone from Amber more than thirty years,
and there was much speculation that he was dead. When last I was in Amber
he was still missing. I wonder what became of him?

I managed an invitation to a party at the Castle. This was quite important as
I would need some sort of positive notice by the Royal family in order to
make good my ambition to be promoted despite my humble background. I had
been studying the children of Oberon for some time, in an effort to leverage
myself into a position of patronage.

My date for the evening was a lovely widow who was the ambassador from Jamin,
a Golden Circle kingdom known for its meat exports. I had been seeing rather
much of her lately. Her name was Serena and she had the most gorgeous red
hair, falling in elaborately coiffured braids to the small of her
back. Exquisite. I comported myself well throughout dinner, conversing
intelligently with the guests and being introduced to Princess Llwella and
Prince Gerard. The dancing after dinner also went well at first.  Serena had
been tutoring me for several months in courtly dancing and I was moving
competently. After several dances with her I found myself before Princess
Fiona just as the next dance was beginning.  With some trepidation I smiled,
bowed, and offered her my arm. She curtsied and accepted.

"Captain ... Malachai, I believe?" she asked as we began the first turn. We
were a bit awkward as partners, since her head did not quite come to my
shoulder. Her waist was incredibly slender and her hair was a color two
shades darker than Serena's.

"Yes, your Highness," I replied cleverly. "How are you enjoying the party?"
As the dance progressed, we made small talk. She soon led the conversation to
my background. I told her briefly of the orphanage and went on to my career.

"So you have no idea of whom your parents might be?" she interrupted.

"No, your Highness. I have often wondered." At that point, the dance
ended. We bowed to each other, and we both passed on to other partners. I had
the sense that more had gone on in our innocent little conversation than I
had understood.

Soon I was dancing with Serena again, this time to a country waltz with a
fairly quick tempo. I was enjoying the feeling of swirling her in my arms
when it happened.

Prince Eric was drunk. I don't know how much liquor it takes to overcome the
legendary capacity of an Amberite Royal, but he had exceeded his
limit. Most of the guests had been trying to ignore his behavior, while a few
flatterers were following him about and tittering at his obnoxious
comments. He decided that he wanted to dance and forced himself upon Countess
Morwen, cutting in on Prince Julian, who was not pleased.

As the dance proceeded Serena and I passed near Eric and Morwen. We tried to
avoid them but Eric stumbled and tripped over my saber. Although I knew the
fault was his I apologized. He would have none of it. The musicians stopped
and the dancers came to a halt as he cursed at me.

"Ignorant cur!" he shouted. "You dance like a baboon, with two club feet!"

I apologized once more, biting down on the anger that would, if expressed,
destroy me.  He growled and pushed me with one hand flat on my chest. I fell
backward. Unicorn, he was strong!

"Outside," he said, jerking a thumb toward the door. "I demand
satisfaction. Your feeble apologies cannot begin to make up for this insult."

Serena stepped up and whispered fearfully in my ear, "Malachai, you have to
get out of this. He'll kill you."

"I know," I whispered back, "but there isn't any way out." I fumed at my ill
fortune.  Although Eric was rumored to be surpassed by several of his
brothers in skill, I had no illusions that my own abilities gave me any
chance against him. Even if by some strange fortune I were to defeat him,
surely his siblings would never suffer me to live.

Resigned to my fate, I nodded to him. "Very well, Your Highness. If there is
no other way."  Gerard stepped up and placed a beefy hand on Eric's
shoulder. "Brother, please," he said.  "He meant no offense. He has
apologized. Let it be enough."

"No," said Eric, throwing off the hand. "It is done, Gerard." He smiled and
looked at me with the piercing gaze of death. "Outside, Captain."

I nodded. I bowed to Gerard, then turned to Serena. Crying, she threw
her arms around me. I kissed her and pushed her gently away.

"Thank you, my lady, for a lovely dance," I told her. My voice was not so
steady as I might have wished. I found her hand, pulled it briefly to my
lips, then walked past Eric and out the door to the courtyard.  Quite a few
guests followed, giving Eric a wide berth. As his second he chose Prince
Julian, who looked bored. I chose Colonel Prospero, who was horrified at my
predicament but could offer no better solution than Serena had. It was late
autumn. I remember that the night was clear and chilly, and the moon was
about three-quarters full.  Around the curve of Mount Kolvir, I glimpsed Tir
Na Nog'th glinting balefully like a cluster of snowflakes in the sky. In the
crowd I saw Princess Fiona, a faint smile upon her lips.

Seven torches were brought and placed in a circle ten paces across. Eric
stood across from me, his frosty breath visible in the cold autumn air, and
he smiled again. We both drew our weapons and the seconds called lay-on. His
sword was of some odd metal with a bright, almost hypnotic sheen. Might it
have strange powers from some distant shadow?

Otto had always told me that if you know that your opponent is better than
you, then an aggressive approach can even the odds slightly. All right. I
stepped forward, point out and edge up in a stance that Otto called
"Spanish." Eric parried my thrust and I brought the tip around to cut at his
head in quarte, then back in after his parry with a fancy
feint-disengage-overhand thrust maneuver with which I had actually tagged
Otto twice.

No joy. Eric pretended to fall for the feint, then ducked down low under my
thrust, which pierced only his cloak. This left me out of line and him in an
excellent position to thrust straight in. I barely stopped it by bringing my
point vertically down to the ground so that I was even further out of
line. Eric, too close now for a good thrust, pushed my shoulder with his left
hand, knocking me off balance as I tried to pivot my sword in a moulinette
straight down. He stepped easily around my clumsy chop and cut for my head. I
managed to get my weapon up in time to partially deflect his blow as I
stumbled back, but it cut like liquid ice into my right shoulder. It didn't
hurt yet, but I could feel the arm jerk slightly as the muscle around the cut
seized.

Eric laughed, enjoying himself, and allowed me to regain my balance before
stepping forward. I circled back and around, parrying a few cuts he flicked
lazily toward me. I knew I was dead. What I wanted then was a piece of him in
trade. My fear was that he would kill me without getting a scratch. Now I
smiled back at him, and I saw a touch of something in his eye--not fear, of
course, but perhaps respect.

I went in again with a point attack, this time low. He parried it down, as I
knew he must, and thrust in for my heart. I stepped in closer, turning aside
so that his thrust slipped close along my chest, leaving what I knew would
become a nasty scar if I lived long enough for it to heal. His sword went up
and around for a close-in cut at my head. I parried, my sword striking sparks
against his. I tried to punch him with my hilt but he ducked below it and
slid his blade down toward my chest.  Without any other options I grabbed his
blade near the hilt with my left hand. I felt it slice through my glove and
my hand like it wasn't there as I desperately brought my sword around for a
wrapping blow over his head. I felt my sword cut once more into his cloak and
then strike flesh. I felt a moment of elation before he shoved a shoulder
into my chest, knocking me back into a torch. I tried to roll back to my feet
but my sword was caught under me and my hand slipped in my own blood so that
for a moment I was immobile. Panic gave way to horror as I saw his point
thrust home toward my heart. This is it, I thought, as I looked up into my
killer's dancing eyes. It is enough...

But somehow, through no action of mine, the thrust went awry. It pierced my
chest on the right side, running me straight through. He cursed and withdrew
the sword for the coup de grace. I had no strength to move as he began an
overhead cut that would surely take off my head. Before it could reach me his
blade, unaccountably, shattered in his hand. He stood there for a moment in
shock and rage, then Gerard stepped in and pulled him away.

Serena came to me as I lay there. She tore the hem from her dress and used it
to staunch the bleeding. I could feel my lung collapsing and knew that if I
tried to speak I would cough up blood. I saw Fiona standing a few paces away,
at the forefront of the crowd. She winked at me and, despite the noise and my
fading consciousness I quite clearly heard her speak to me.

"It would be a pity to waste such a fine dancer," she said as all else faded
away.

When next I awoke I opened my eyes and saw Gerard's beefy face break into a
smile. I was in the castle infirmary, he said, and he had dropped by to check
in on me. I asked weakly after Serena. He told me she had been here by my
side for most of the two days since the duel, and would be back soon. I tried
to sit up but he pushed me back, telling me to rest. I fell asleep before
Serena returned, but she was there when I again awoke.  When I was finally
well enough, a few weeks later, we had quite a celebration.  Although I had
lost the small and ring fingers of my left hand and gained some impressive
scars, I considered myself lucky.

The duel both helped and hindered my career. While I was not in favor with
Eric, he made no overt attempts to sabotage me. I was told later that I had
put a nasty cut across his left shoulder blade; perhaps that had earned me a
measure of tolerance. Some of the others, particularly Gerard, seemed to
admire the spirit with which I had met my fate and the hardiness I had shown
in surviving it. Gerard in fact asked if I wanted to transfer to the navy, as
he had uses for men such as myself. Flattered, I declined, telling him that I
had a duty to my men.  I tried to keep a low profile in court, but a month
later I received a message from Princess Fiona, asking me to meet her the
next day at the castle. I spent the intervening time wondering what she
wanted of me. Did she think me handsome and want a liaison? Did she wish to
ensure that I not tell Eric who had destroyed his sword? Was there some
dangerous mission she wished me to undertake?  With no little trepidation I
arrived at the castle the next day and told the steward that I had an
appointment with her. She appeared shortly, greeted me, and asked me to
follow her. When I tried to ask what this was about she shushed me. Soon we
came to a suite on the second floor of the castle, obviously her personal
rooms. It was comfortably and informally decorated, with many objects that
I did not recognize. The walls were covered in bookshelves. (When later I was
able to glance at the titles of the books I found that they were on many
subjects and in many languages.)  "Captain, let me explain why I have asked
you here," she said.

"Please do," I replied, "for I am most curious, your Highness."

"I do not like to see a man of your caliber killed in so pointless a manner
as nearly happened a month ago. I daresay that without my intervention--as
we both know it was I who saved you--you would certainly have died."

"And I must express my extreme gratitude that you have done me the honor of
saving my life," I said.

"And you are most welcome. I am happy that I was able to assist you. However,
I will not always be available to effect a last-minute rescue. Thus I have
determined that it is necessary to teach you a few things that may assist you
in similar dire circumstances in the future."

"I am sorry, but I do not understand Your Highness' meaning. I have studied
fencing for many years ... "

"I do not refer to fencing, Captain, but to magic," she said.

I did not know what to say. I had seen magicians on the streets of Amber and
in other places, and I had heard that there are shadows where magic is part
of the normal congress of everyday life, but I had never considered myself a
potential practitioner.

"I propose to teach you a few simple spells that you may find useful in the
profession of arms that you have chosen for yourself," she continued. "These
spells will by no means turn you into a master sorcerer--that would take many
years and perhaps more talent than you have-- but they may provide you with
an advantage in the perilous times that no doubt lie ahead for us all."

I admit that I was not, initially, keen on the idea. "And what does your
Highness ask in return?" I inquired.

She smiled. "I wish us to be friends, Captain. I admire your spirit, and I
sense that there is more to you than meets the eye. This is a favor I wish to
do for you. In the future, there may be a favor you can do for me."

"Very well, Your Highness. I agree."

Over the next two months, amid rumors that she and I were engaged in a
dalliance, Fiona proceeded to teach me a few simple magics, in the form of
Words of Power. She made it clear that the words themselves were not the
source of magic, but instead acted as foci for my own will. I learned to
produce a small and uncontrollable shiver in another person's body, to
provide myself with a momentary bit of useful luck, to throw bright spots
before a person's eyes, to disrupt magical spells, and to deflect an oncoming
object. Fiona warned me not to depend on these abilities excessively, since a
prepared opponent can take countermeasures. She also cautioned that there
were some shadows where such magic would not work at all. I thanked her for
her kind assistance. Soon thereafter, my squadron was ordered into the field,
away from Amber and her messy politics.

By that time Eric was in full control of Amber, having cemented an alliance
with Julian, Caine, and Gerard. Benedict had been absent for some
time. Corwin, who had reappeared, was rumored to have allied with Bleys, with
whom he was said to be readying an attack. My unit patrolled the borders of
Garnath to meet them. When the expected invasion came, we were ordered to
fall back and harass the enemy. We did so, minimizing our casualties and
working to cut lines of supply and communication.  Bleys and Corwin finally
penetrated to the castle with a fraction of the force they had begun
with. While they performed their doomed fight up the steps of Kolvir, my men
and I were harrying their rear. By the time Bleys had fallen and Corwin had
cut his way to the top, my squadron had pushed to the foot of the stairs,
dismounted, and begun following their rear guard upward. We helped butcher
what remained of Corwin's men. I watched as they netted him and pulled the
fabled Greyswandir from his grasp, then carried him cursing to his cell. We
spent the next morning searching for Eric's body among those who had fallen
from Kolvir. All that we found was a set of portraits of the royal family on
cards, prompting rumors that he had used some magical means to escape.

The 2nd Lancers were ordered out of Amber soon thereafter. We joined with
Julian's Rangers in searching for any sign of a second invasion from Bleys,
although none came from that quarter. I heard later that Corwin, when brought
before Eric in chains and told to place the crown of Amber upon his brother's
head, had crowned himself instead.  For his defiance he was blinded and
thrown in prison. I have been told that the Royal family does not kill its
own, and in this matter Eric showed a certain hard clemency.

On my rare leaves I returned to Amber, finding Serena a fine companion. We
shared many long walks and gentle embraces. I remember in particular one
dazzling June day, when she and I walked through the magnificent flower
gardens of the First Unicorn Temple. Later we saw a play presented by
Princess Flora's Emerald Company and danced endlessly at a ball hosted by
Count Ingvar of Northmarch. Such times became increasingly infrequent as
further menaces arose to threaten Amber.

It was said that the monsters who began to appear in Arden and Garnath soon
after Corwin's imprisonment were drawn to Amber by his curse. They were
horrid creatures who came mostly by night. They seemed to us like fiends from
hell, and I now know that they were. I spent two years hunting them. At first
they were rare, but soon it seemed that the more we killed, the more would
come the next night. By the second year they came day and night, and they
worked together with deadly cunning. I became very skilled at hunting demons.

One moonless night, a few days after I heard of Corwin's strange escape from
the Amber dungeon, I led fifty troopers through Eastern Garnath near the
Black Road. We were following a group of demons who had attacked a manor
house a few miles south, killing the family and their servants. Three of
Julian's Rangers were acting as scouts ahead of us. We were following the
trail in single file, riding through open forest, when I heard a warning call
from one of the scouts. I quietly ordered the column to halt and spread them
out into a combat formation. There was no further sound from the scouts, but
then we heard wings flapping above us.

The first rule for coping with an ambush is to pick a direction and go. Never
stay in the place the ambushers have picked out for you. Choosing 45 degrees to
the left at random, I told my men to lower their lances and charge
through. As we began the charge, javelins and other projectiles began to fall
on us from the front and sides. Something clanged off my breastplate, and I
saw a large horned figure loom ahead of me. I drove my spear through the
demon's chest and heard it scream in agony as I rode past. I failed to
recover the lance from the creature, so I drew my sword, rode past a clump of
the hell-creatures clustered around some dark banner, and called my men to
me.

As I turned my horse, five of my men rallied with me. I saw that, while we
had done some damage on the way through, many of my men were down or engaged
with winged creatures which had dropped from the trees. We circled, looking
for a way clear of the enemy, then spotted a line of cavalry approaching from
our rear. At first I thought they were our men, but then I saw the skeletal
horses they rode. As I peered closer in the darkness, I saw that they were
white-haired women, dressed in extravagant armor. There were perhaps fifty
of them.

Choosing the better part of valor, I was about to order my men to retreat
when a small glowing green sphere emerged from the group of horsewomen and
flew toward us.  Foul sorcery! We had no time to react before it was upon
us. It flew between two of my men, Harrick and Neton, then burst like a
bubble. At first I thought it had had no effect, but in a moment the troopers
and their horses screamed in terror. I saw their bodies rip apart, as if
something were eating them from the inside.

"Save yourselves!" I screamed, and in desperation the rest of us fled. The
women on their demon horses followed us. In horror I watched another ball of
light float quickly toward us. It burst next to me as I leapt from my horse,
terrified. In an instant the horse and another of my men withered away and
faded into dust as they succumbed to the awful effects of the spell. Although
I was in the apparent radius of its magic, I felt only a strange tingling in
my left hand where Eric's blade had taken two fingers.

When I landed I rolled to my feet, sword out, and readied myself for the
onrushing demons. As the first spear sought my heart, I dodged to one side
and the demon rode past me. The next one came up and tried to cleave me with
a sword. I stepped aside and thrust upward, stabbing toward the hellmaiden's
visor. My point slipped past her gorget and pierced her throat as she leaned
down, missing her swing. Her momentum and the urgency of my thrust carried
the whole blade through her neck. She fell forward from the horse, her helm
clattering loudly into the darkness as we were knocked together to the
ground. She landed atop me, clawing spasmodically at me as I labored to
regain my breath. Her ashen skin and hair were now bestained with blood that
was not red. Where it touched me I felt it burning my skin. She gnashed
fanged teeth weakly at me and expired.

I rolled her twitching body off me, put a boot to her chest, and withdrew my
bloody sword from her neck. As a rule I try never to harm women, but I felt
only loathing for this foul creature I had slain. I noticed that the last
foot of my sword had broken off when it pierced her and that her blood was so
caustic that the metal was now blackened and pitted. As I stood I saw ten
or twelve of the hellmaidens sitting astride their horses, regarding me from
a distance of perhaps twenty yards. One in the center appeared to be the
leader. She wore a winged helm and bore a mace instead of a lance. I saw her
speaking to her compatriots, but could not make out her words.

Figuring I had nothing to lose, I pointed my sword in the direction of her
heart and ran at her. She smiled, obviously thinking me rather pitiful, and
raised her mace in my direction. She mouthed some strange words and I saw
another glowing spell emerge from the tip of her weapon. I tried to dodge to
the side as it came to meet me, but it followed. I uttered a Word of Power,
to no apparent effect. It burst above my head with a faint popping
sound. Expecting to feel my insides bursting, at first I felt only weakness
and a strong tingling sensation throughout my left arm. The tingling spread
to encompass most of the left side of my torso and neck. I fell weakly to my
knees and watched in horror as the skin in the affected areas began to
erupt. Worm-like tendrils burst forth and began to wriggle back and forth
under my armor. My left arm writhed uncontrollably as I felt the bones melt
away with a dreadful sucking sound. My hand fused into a single pseudopodia,
and I in a few seconds I regarded with loathing three black tentacles that
had taken the place of my arm.

They laughed at me when I screamed in horror. Three of them rode up and
knocked me unconscious. I don't think any of my men were captured as I was; a
few of them may have escaped, but I am sure that most of them died.  I
remember an endless time of travel through desolate and blackened
landscapes. I am not proud of the weakness I showed in my reaction to my
transformation, but despite my disgust at my own behavior I will not attempt
to whitewash it. I was indeed pitiful.

They kept me naked and securely bound. Between bouts of madness I remember
becoming vaguely accustomed to my new appendage. I have never learned to
control it fully; still it writhes and grasps whenever I do not give it my
full concentration. At first I had no control over it whatsoever. The warrior
maidens rarely spoke to me, although they seemed to find my horror at what
had happened to my arm quite amusing. I did discover that the leader of this
band was called Dulnea, and that they were Hendrakes, whatever that may be.

As we traveled the land became more and more strange. I must admit that I
often regressed into catatonia, so I am unsure of whether my memories
represent observation or hallucination. Finally we came to the foul place in
which I currently reside--a great black fortress atop a jagged mountain
beneath a kaleidoscope sky. I think I heard one of them call it Gantu. I was
brought to this cell through shifting corridors and across stinking pits of
slime. They left me here, naked. After a few hours or days I was brought out,
hosed down, and brought in chains before Dulnea. She began asking me
questions. I answered most of them truthfully, having little to
hide. Whenever she didn't like an answer pain was applied by one means or
another. I discovered that she could, when she wished, control my tentacles,
and it amused her to cause them to slap or choke me whenever I was less than
perfectly cooperative.

The questioning sessions were repeated, over and over, in interminable
sessions over many days. Eventually there were different
questioners--sometimes humans or mostly humans, other times demons. A few
times I saw them change their shape from one form to another. Perhaps they
were all Dulnea in different guises. I was starved, deprived of sleep, and
tortured. I was allowed to sleep, but awoke drowning in maggots. The
questions repeated, over and over, about who I was and what I had done.
Small details about Amber. Troop dispositions and tactics. I tried to keep
the latter from them, but I fear that in my mad ravings I let all
slip. Finally Dulnea used her magic to probe my mind, pushing and tearing
painfully at the fabric of my consciousness.

The interrogation sessions finally stopped, and I was left to wait for a
considerable time-- months or years? Time has lost its meaning in this
place. Then the recent session that I described earlier. Who knows what it
all means? I am not sure that I care anymore.

 * * *

Journal, it has been a long time since I last wrote. Nothing has happened,
and I have had nothing to say. They have left me here to rot. There have been
no interrogations or anything besides food and water for a very long time. I
don't know how long I have been here, or even whether time has any meaning in
this place. Certainly it has been years.  The area of my body changed by the
spell is expanding. Now it covers all of my left side, up my neck, and onto
my face. Yesterday, I noticed another tentacle growing below the other three.

I think sometimes of Serena. Does she still live? Perhaps Amber was conquered
long ago. Perhaps Oberon has come back, as the stories say, with an army to
defeat these creatures and come rescue me. I wonder.

 * * *

It has been long again. Very long. The blight has taken most of me. I now
have eight tentacles, growing in two clusters at my shoulder and hip. My left
leg is turning into another cluster. The cilia cover most of my torso and
face. On the left side my ear has disappeared, and I can feel that the skull
is dissolving. The eye on that side has changed, so that what I see with it
is blurry and strange. Sometimes I see things with it I that I cannot see
with the other.

My mind is going. I can feel it changing. I am slow, and my dreams are full
of things I do not understand. I have thought about killing myself, but I
don't think I can.

Serena, I do still think of you.

 * * *

gone all gone

 * * *

Freedom. It is so strange a thing, to be out of the cell, to be a semblance
of myself again, to be free. I want to dance. I want to cry. I want to go
back to my cell and fade away again so that I will be safe and no one will
know what I became.  No, I don't want that. If this is a dream and I still
abide in my cell let me not awaken.

For my first coherent thought in--how long?--I realized that I was thirsty. I
opened my eyes and realized that I could see again as I once had. I looked
around. I was laying on a cot in a tent. There was a man seated with his
boots propped up on a table, reading a book. It was a large tent and the flap
was open, letting in light and a warm breeze.

The man looked over at me and sat up. "Awake," he said. He had a long dark
beard and was dressed in a loose robe. At his side was a long sword in a
well-worn scabbard. I would have recognized him instantly were I not so
confused.

I tried to speak, but I didn't remember how it went. It had something to do
with the mouth, I knew. After a few seconds I managed a moaning sound.
"Don't bother trying to talk yet," he said. He turned to the tent
entrance. "Soup," he shouted, and soon it was brought. As I ate he had me
practice speaking, first repeating a few syllables, then words. My memories
began to clear, and I was able to ask for more. More was brought. Suddenly,
his identity dawned upon me.

"Oberon ... " I blurted. "Ma ... Majesty ... " Unable to get out of bed and
kneel, I did my best to bow my head and appear appropriately humble.

"Enough," he said. "I have no time for that. You shall rest now, Captain, and
I will see you later." He left me with the soup after making sure I was still
able to feed myself.  Actually, by that time I was quite sleepy. I managed a
few more spoonfuls, then drifted off. I awoke briefly several times over what
I was later told was seven days. I contracted a fever and a doctor gave me a
bitter tea to choke down. I could hear the familiar sounds of a large
military encampment outside.  Finally my fever broke and His Majesty again
visited me. He told me that the war was over and that this camp was near
Chaos, the capital of our enemy. Amber had been victorious and Chaos had
surrendered. I had been released from captivity in an almost completely
transformed state. Oberon had been told of my origins and had used his own
methods to transform me most of the way back into my original form. He showed
me this journal, which had been handed over with me. He had apparently had no
compunctions about perusing it.

"This is interesting reading," he said. "They did not lie when they said you
are real. I think the most likely explanation is that you are my grandson. We
won't know that for sure until you attempt to walk the Pattern, and we may
never know which of my children is your genitor."

He did not mention that if I was not his grandson, and I tried to walk the
Pattern, I would die.

"You will stay here for another week," he continued. "Assuming that you are
strong enough, you will travel back to Amber with Bleys and his troops." So
Bleys was alive, and apparently again in good standing with the King. It
would not be unlike him to emerge from a civil war on favorable terms.

"I have some business to attend to. I will meet you in Amber in about a
month, your time." With that he stood up and made ready to leave.

"Your Majesty, when may I assay the Pattern?" I asked him.

"That will not be for some time," he said. "You will require considerable
coaching if you are to succeed. Your generation finds it quite difficult."
With that he left me.

Within a few days I was able to stand by myself and walk for short
distances. A week later I was basically healthy. I have begun again to write
in this journal as I find that it has helped me to clarify my thoughts.
There is one thing I have not mentioned yet because I find it painful to
discuss.  Oberon did not fully return me to human form. Much of my left side,
including my face and part of my scalp, is covered in blisters, sores, and
greyish bumps that are the remains of the cilia that once consumed me. My
left leg does not function fully, so that I have a noticeable limp and poor
balance. When I asked him whether full restoration would be possible, he
said, "That would be difficult. Walking the Pattern should fix things, and
that will happen soon enough."  Difficult? I am grateful to His Majesty for
restoring most of my proper form. I even have back the two fingers I lost in
my duel with Prince Eric (who, I am told, is dead).  However, I cannot keep
from resenting his unwillingness to finish the job. I am reluctant to let
anyone see me like this. Captain Prospero came by yesterday, having heard of
my release, but I told the doctor that I felt very tired and asked him to
spare me visitors.

Is this only vanity? How can I be so ungrateful as to be angry that I am not
perfectly repaired? But there is, I think, more to it. Every time I see
myself or see another's disturbed reaction to my visage I am brought back
to the years I spent in Gantu. Oberon told me that, with the time
differential, I was in prison for about one hundred and twenty subjective
years. I have spent nearly half my life in prison. If I could be whole,
without these scars, it would be much easier for me to return to my old
life. As it is, my disfigurement will present a constant reminder of the
ordeal that I so desire to forget.  If Oberon is trying to provide me with
sufficient motivation to try a walk on the Pattern, he is doing an admirable
job. Indeed, I find myself eager. Tomorrow I begin the journey back to
Amber. I am told that only a few years have passed there. I wonder if back
pay is given based on my time or on Amber time?

 * * *

Once again I am in Amber. She is still beautiful, touched little by the
war. For now I am housed in the barracks of the 2nd Lancers. I have met with
some of my former comrades. They try to hide their response to my appearance,
but I can tell that they are horrified. Perhaps they think it would have been
kinder had I been cleanly slain on the battlefield. Perhaps it would
have. They do try to present a brave facade and show that they are glad of
my return. It has been such a long time for me, but only a few years for
them. Many of my friends were lost in the war, including the noble Sergeant
Dodd, and I see many new faces. Brave lads, all. I am told that the regiment
distinguished itself at the battle of Patternfall in a series of charges
which broke the enemy left wing.  The troops have told me many stories of
bold deeds. I wish I had been there to see them.

Yesterday I met with Colonel Prospero and with Captain Benito, who assumed my
post when I was lost. A good man, Benito; he would have been my choice as a
replacement.  Unfortunately, my reappearance presents a difficulty, as there
are four battalions in the regiment and, with me, five captains to command
them. I have told them that, for now, there is no conflict as I have decided
to take a leave of absence. Although they hid it, it was clear that they were
relieved at my decision. Nevertheless, they assure me that I have a place
whenever I decide to resume my commission.

Tomorrow I am summoned into the presence of His Majesty. We shall see how
that will turn out. In the meantime I have avoided sending word of my return
to Serena. I am sure that she has taken another lover; we never made any
commitments and I was thought to be certainly dead. And of course there is
the matter of my appearance. I don't think I can stand to see pity in her
eyes. I have been in Amber for a week now and each day I say, tomorrow I will
send her a note. It is very hard. I fear I am not the man I once
was. Something has died and left me, and I do not know how to live without
it.

 * * *

Years! Two years I must wait before I may try the Pattern.

After a delay of three hours I was ushered into His Majesty's presence. This
was not a formal court; Oberon was seated at a desk with a stack of papers
that assistants brought for him to peruse and that they carried away after he
had taken action upon them. I waited perhaps ten minutes before he took
notice of me.

"Ah, Malachai," he said, "I see that you are looking much better. How do you
feel?"

"I am well, Your Majesty," I replied. "Thank you for asking."

"Good. I am enrolling you in a course on Pattern studies. You will be placed
on indefinite leave from the Lancers. The course will be taught primarily
by myself, but also by other members of the family, including Fiona, with
whom I understand you are ... ah ... acquainted." He looked stern. "You must
understand that any fraternizing with family members is now strictly
forbidden."

"Your Majesty," I replied, "to my knowledge I have never engaged in sexual
relations of any kind with any member of the Amber Royal family."

"Well, perhaps I am misinformed. Regardless; any such behavior is now out of
the question. I will not abide incest."

"Yes, Your Majesty."

"Now then," he continued, "this course will involve perhaps five years of
rather intense study. There will be several other students who are probably
your cousins. Once you have completed your initial studies to my satisfaction
you will be guided through your first Pattern walk."

"Do I understand Your Majesty to say that I will not be able to walk the
Pattern for five years?" I asked.

"No, you should be able to walk it after two or three years. The rest of the
course will be practice in how to use Pattern once you have it."

"Then is it possible for Your Majesty to completely restore my form?"

"You mean those blemishes? I don't have time for such cosmetic work. I'm
sorry but you will just have to wait until the Pattern can straighten things
out."

"I see."

"I have assigned you quarters in the castle; you can move in
immediately. Your studies will begin tomorrow."

"Very well, Your Majesty. Is there anything else?"

"See the Steward about your room and make any requests through him. I
understand that you have considerable back pay coming to you. I have seen to
it that you will be paid for all of your time as a prisoner. You will also
have a stipend to support you during your studies. Good day, Captain." Since
I was clearly dismissed, I saluted and left.

Cosmetic work? I am a monster!


 * * *

It has been some time since I have written, as I have been quite busy. My
room in the castle is reasonably spacious. The back pay I drew for 120 years
was a sizable lump sum, most of which I placed in various investments. I have
been taking classes with various instructors for about a month now. There is
indeed much to learn about continuum theory, shadow mechanics, path
visualization, Trump usage, Amber history, and related topics. I feel like I
am a child back at the orphanage.

His Majesty teaches most of the course. He is more patient than I would have
expected. Princess Fiona also provides instruction on occasion. She continues
to treat me in a friendly manner, though somewhat distant compared to the
more personal instruction I had previously received from her. Recently she
was called away on some mission for His Majesty; she was not sure when she
would be back. I have kept myself basically separate from the other students,
although some of them have tried to be friendly. I fear that my sensitivity
over my appearance and the effects of captivity have left me rather difficult
to cope with. Rather than be unpleasant I do not socialize at all. I have
been drinking a bit too much lately, but I am careful to ensure that it does
not interfere with my studies.

I am not sure whether I will be able to hold myself together for the full two
years. I have considered the possibility of disobeying His Majesty and
attempting a Pattern walk without his sanction. I am, however, afraid to
invoke his wrath, of which I have heard much. I have heard also that at least
one grandchild of Oberon has died on the Pattern. I expect that I will need
all of this preparation, difficult as it is to be patient.

Gerard visited the other day. He was quite friendly. He told me that next
summer we students would be learning about Shadow paths by traversing them
with the fleet. He invited me to join him, and I told him I would be glad
to. Gerard is a good sort.

I have heard nothing from Serena since returning to Amber, nor have I
attempted to approach her. It is possible that she is no longer even in
Amber; she may have returned to her own shadow. If she is in the city, she
may not have heard of my release. I spend little time out of the castle these
days and I do not attend affairs of state, so a chance encounter is
unlikely. I believe that I will allow things to stay this way for now.

 * * *

It is hard to believe that it has been 18 months since my return to
Amber. Yesterday I returned from a voyage with the fleet, following the
shadow paths that have created trade routes among the Golden Circle
kingdoms. Gerard showed me the manner in which he strengthens a shadow
path. He also took the ship away from the established pathway so that I could
see how a new route through shadow could be created.  Without the imprint of
Pattern I felt like a blind man being told about color, but I begin to
understand what is meant by shifting shadow. Each change must be so minus-
cule that it does not clash with the surroundings, yet many such shifts can
produce a complete change in environment.

I am blind, and yet almost I see.

 * * *

Just a few more days. Princess Flora sought me out this morning. Morose as I
have been these days, it is impossible not to enjoy a conversation with a
lady so beautiful and well-mannered, even if she is my aunt.

After we had exchanged some simple pleasantries about the weather, she said,
"What I have come to talk to you about is this. Whenever anyone successfully
traverses the Pattern, it is customary that a party be held in
celebration. I'm the one who usually organizes these parties, because no one
else really cares to. In order to properly prepare, I must know when it shall
be held.

"Now there are two possibilities, Malachai." I thought she referred to
survival or death, but I was mistaken. She was granting, possibly out of
politeness, that I would succeed.

"As you know, when you finish walking the Pattern, you shall be able to
command it to send you anywhere you desire. You might, as some others have
done, choose to simply go back upstairs. In such a case the party can be held
as soon as you have recovered from the ordeal of the walk. You might also
choose to send yourself to someplace in Shadow. In that case, you will have
to inform me a day or two in advance of when you will be returning."

"I shall be happy to comply," I told her. "I'll tell you by tomorrow whether
I intend to go forth into Shadow immediately or wait a while."

"Excellent."

Flora has a reputation as being something of a foolish chatterbox. But she
looked at me very seriously then and said, "Malachai, I wish you the best of
luck. I shall be glad when you have walked the Pattern and it has restored
your proper form."

I began to speak but she held a slender finger to my lips. "I know how
Oberon's refusal to heal your scars has made it impossible to recover from
your ordeal. I did not know you before your capture, but I have heard that
you were a much more confident and pleasant fellow. I hope the Pattern allows
you to become the person you want to be."

I took her hand and kissed it. "Thank you," I said.

She smiled her dazzling smile and got up to leave. "Good day, Malachai."
"Good day, Your Highness."

"Oh, do call me Flora, if we're to be related."

"Flora."

There is more to Princess Florimel than meets the eye.

 * * *

Tomorrow is the appointed day for my try at the Pattern. I have decided that,
if I succeed, I shall use the Pattern to transport me out into Shadow
immediately. I will bring this journal with me. Although I haven't really
kept up with it this last couple of years, I find it has become a part of me.

If I do not succeed, then this shall be my last entry. I would like anyone
reading this to know that I went gladly to do this thing. Either I succeed,
or there is nothing more for me in this life. The hope of attaining Pattern
has kept me living for these last two years. Without it the scars are too
broad and too deep.

 * * *

Well, I made it; I have the prize. I do not know my parentage, but I do know
that I am of royal blood. And finally, I am healed.

I got up early and dressed once again in my Captain's uniform, with a sabre
and a belt pouch containing a few supplies. I also brought this journal and
materials with which to write. Oberon presided over the affair, bringing me
downstairs and giving last-minute instructions that were repetitions of what
I have been told over the last two years. Also in attendance were Fiona,
Flora, and Gerard, along with Colonel Prospero and a few other friends from
the Lancers. I wish Dodd had been alive to see it. I miss the old fellow.

I looked for a few minutes at the Pattern, lighting us all with its spectral
glow. It seemed alien, at once welcoming and malevolent His Majesty took me
by the shoulders and gave me a few final words, which I cannot for the life
of me remember. Fiona gave me a pleasant smile and Flora kissed me for
luck. The others shook my hand and wished me the best. Without further delay
I took a deep breath, walked over to the beginning, and took my last first
step.

I felt a shock run though my body and a dull tingling in my fingers and toes.
Distantly, I heard a round of applause and shouted words of encouragement as
I failed to burst into flames.  I won't describe the walk step by step; my
relatives have done so repeatedly, in excruciating detail, in various
writings in the Amber library. My account would not differ materially from
theirs. Suffice it to say that it was harder than anything I have ever
done. After the First Veil I mostly lost my sense of embodiment and instead
began to perceive myself almost as a ball of energy proceeding down some vast
conduit. I felt a sense of redefinition, as if the old me had been destroyed
and a new Malachai, similar but not quite equivalent, were taking his
place. Then that me was destroyed in turn and yet another was formed. This
process repeated many times, with each copy resulting in a self somehow
more removed from the man who first set foot upon the thing. At points there
were memories and events like dreams, more intense but with the feeling that
they were happening to someone else.

At last I stood at the center, rediscovering the experience of being one
person, myself, in a single body, at a single moment of time. The walk was
rather like a dream in that my memories of it are elusive and transitory. I
realized that I was bathed in sweat and shaking with exhaustion. I waved
weakly to my relatives and friends, then concentrated on the place I had
decided to go. With no sense of transition, I was there.

It was a secluded beach in a nameless and pleasant shadow. I took a sip of
watered brandy from my canteen and found a shady spot beneath a palm tree.  I
put a hand to my face--and found it unblemished! I took off my jacket, shirt,
and breeches, finding myself whole in every regard. For some time I wept like
a child who has been beaten. Finally, exhausted, I fell asleep.

Upon waking, much refreshed, I re-checked to make sure I was still
whole. Then I took out the journal and made this entry. I plan to find
something to eat and then try this shadow-walking I have heard so much about.

 * * *

It works. I am like a god. I can create worlds with but a thought. The sheer
power of it staggers me.

For several days I traveled from place to place, experimenting with different
ways to shift shadow. I found myself a horse--a big dappled charger with
extraordinary stamina named Bucephalus--who accustomed himself quickly to
shadow walking.  Being able to ride again with proper balance and with both
legs working correctly is more joyous than I can describe. Bucephalus
galloped at top speed through Shadow for nearly a day before we both
tired. Later I tried hellriding and found it unpleasant for myself and
terrifying for my horse. We practiced at it until we could both stand a full-
speed hellride. I played with the laws of probability and found that I can
manipulate my clothing and possessions as I move. I can just "happen" to find
local currency in my pocket or the right papers to placate a guard.

Three days ago I found myself a friendly brothel called the Crimson
Palace. After demonstrating to Madame Justine that I possessed considerable
wealth and could afford any charges I might incur, I selected a dark-haired
lady named Ariadne.  It had been a long time. During my captivity in Chaos I
had no opportunity for sex and after my release I had remained celibate,
mostly out of depression and sensitivity about my appearance. All in all I
had not had sex in more than one hundred and twenty years. I have always had
excellent endurance and staying power, as one would expect from my heritage,
and I spent several hours with Ariadne. When she complained of exhaustion I
called for another, a dusky blonde named Lissandra. When she was tired I
rested for a bit, had an excellent dinner, and then got to work with twins,
Selena and Ariken. They worked in shifts through the night (I found that in
addition to their other skills, they gave an excellent massage), but by
morning they asked for relief. I spent the next day with Janine, then Hana. I
slept for a few hours, had another go around with Selena and Ariken, then
proceeded on to Betina. Madame Justine, intrigued, came out of retirement
just for me. I tipped them all very well. It's good to be a god.

 * * *

With that out of my system, for now, I bade a fond farewell to the ladies of
the Crimson Palace, mounted Bucephalus, and set out on business. I had no
illusions that "godhood" granted me any invulnerability and I knew that in
traveling through Shadow it was best to be prepared for hostile locals. I had
brought a sabre with me but it was nothing special--I wanted a superior
weapon. In a shadow named Tulaine, near the desert city of Kosan, lives the
best sword smith in a thousand worlds. Her name is Tazik. She is an inch
taller than me, with sinewy arms like the cables of a ship. Her skin is the
darkest ebony and her hair is shaved into a thin mohawk dyed a deep
purple. Strange tattoos cover her face, breasts, and belly. Her eyes are a
striking yellow.  She has lived there for many years and the locals are
terrified of her.

I came to her and told her my requirements. I wanted a sabre, only slightly
curved, with a back-blade along about a third of its length. The hilt should
be a simple basket of golden bars interlaced about my coat of arms, with a
single blue stone set into the pommel. It should weigh about six pounds, be
forty-two inches long, and have a balance point about eight inches from the
hilt. It should be razor-sharp and virtually unbreakable.

Tazik pressed for more details, which I provided after due consideration. We
traded sketches back and forth. She brought in a several fencers and had them
fight me using different styles while she watched and took notes. She
measured my shoulder, arm, hand, and fingers meticulously and had me swing a
variety of weapons about, telling her how each felt to me. Finally, she named
an exorbitant price. Without attempting to dicker, I gave her half as a down
payment and she told me to come back in a month.

I played with time, riding to a shadow where a day in Tulaine passed in a
local hour.  There I made the acquaintance of a lovely young woman named Miko
and passed a few pleasant hours with her. I got the timing right and returned
just as Tazik was providing the sword with its final quenching. I watched as
she sharpened and polished it to a mirror finish and her assistant completed
the hilt. The next day the weapon was fitted together. As I held the sword
and took a stance I knew she was mine. She could cut through an ordinary
cuirass or helmet easily, and with a strong thrust I could punch through a
half inch of steel. Yet she moved fluidly, like an extension of my arm.  I
complimented Tazik and paid her half again the agreed price.

I named her Galantine.

 * * *

Since then I have spent perhaps three months traveling in Shadow, exploring
different places and different aspects of my abilities. For the past few days
I have been working my way closer to Amber. This morning I called to myself a
grey hawk. To its leg I attached a note to Flora, informing her that I would
be returning in a day or two. I released it, knowing that it would find its
way to her.

I am ready to return. I feel like some part of my soul has been restored to
me. I will return to Amber, take my rightful place as a member of the family,
and find Lady Serena. If she has not married, perhaps we can go off and
explore Shadow together.

 * * *

I am again in Amber. Upon my return to the castle I was met by Flora, who
told me that my Patternwalk party had commenced several hours earlier, as the
participants had not wanted to wait for the guest of honor. I saw Bucephalus
stabled, took a quick shower, dressed, and made my appearance. There was a
heartwarming cheer as I entered; then I was welcomed by the family that was
now confirmed to be mine.  Gerard nearly broke my back when he hugged me, and
even Benedict welcomed me quietly and shook my hand. It was an excellent
party.  Later Fiona took me aside and had me pose for my Trump portrait. I
wore my best uniform and stood against one wall of the castle. It was near
dawn when we began, so in the Trump the sun is rising out of reddening clouds
in the background. I am standing, holding Galantine sheathed and looking at
the viewer with a confident smile.  Later, Oberon presented me with my own
Trump deck, containing the whole family. It will be quite helpful to have a
deck of my own.

 * * *

It has been almost three years; I have gotten out of the habit of writing in
this journal.  In the future I shall try to be better about that.  Shortly
after my Patternwalk party I got in touch with Serena. She was glad to see
me, although it was clear that she had not held herself aloof from other men
while I was away. I could understand this, since everyone had thought me
dead. We still see each other often, though there is no firm commitment and
each of us is free to see others. For now, this arrangement is satisfactory
to both of us.

Walking the Pattern has not excused me from Oberon's class. I am now able to
comprehend much more of his teaching. We spend considerable time out in
Shadow, traveling through different environments and practicing various
manipulations. Since regaining my proper form I have made friends with my
other cousins in the class: Valeria, Zack, Connor, and Alastair. Another
cousin, K'rin, sometimes joins us. Of the class, only Alastair has yet to
walk the Pattern, and he is due to make a try at it soon.

 * * *

Yesterday Oberon told us that Flora had not been able to reach Caine to
invite him to Alastair's upcoming Patternwalk Party. No one else had been
able to get him either.  Rhiannon had, however, detected someone "real" in a
slow time area where Trump were ineffective. Oberon thought it would be a
good practical exercise for the class (which currently consisted of Valeria,
Zack, and myself) to go and investigate. If Caine was there, we should give
him the invitation. If we found Dworkin or the Jewel of Judgment (Caine was
out looking for both) we should attempt to retrieve them. Oberon gave
additional instructions which were basically just common sense.

I thought this an excellent opportunity for a bit of excitement after being
cooped up in class for the past couple of years. An hour later we were back
in the classroom, prepared to go. I wore my uniform and carried
Galantine. I decided not to bring Bucephalus along--a wise course of action,
as things turned out.

Fiona concentrated for a moment and a shimmering gateway opened before us. It
seemed a much more convenient method of travel than shadow walking, but who
am I to judge? Through the gate was what appeared to be a beige disk about a
quarter mile in diameter. The disk seemed to be flying over an open
desert. Connor stepped through, then me. When I stepped on it, it sounded
hollow. I wandered around it as the others came through. It seemed basically
featureless, with a few nondescript bumps here and there. I took out my sword
and tried to pierce the surface, but there seemed to be some sort of magic
protecting it, as the sword could not quite come in contact with it. It was
the first thing I've found that Galantine cannot cut, although I assume that
Julian's armor might also fall into that category.

Connor, through some mystical means or another, said that he had seen that
there were many rooms and corridors below us. How surprising. We went over to
the edge, which curved gradually downward. Zack produced a rope ladder from
his bag. Valeria held it while he lowered himself down. Soon he called up
that there was a door near him and could Valeria please move twenty feet to
the right. He did so and then managed to open the door. He went in to explore
while Connor went down after. I held the rope for Valeria. Once inside she
was kind enough to find a ramp which she secured so that it protruded from
the doorway like a plank from a ship. Feeling foolhardy, I let myself slide
down the side of the vessel. Fortunately, I managed to land on the ramp. We
pulled it in, secured it, and entered the vessel. Inside was a large room
which smelled unaccountably like camels, although none were in evidence. As
we were looking about, we all began to sense that the sky ship was shifting
through shadow.  Then Connor said, "There's something real coming." We
discussed the implications of this for a few moments and decided that we
would be friendly.  Apparently we were overheard, as a voice said, "So you're
all in agreement, then?"  A man stepped out of a doorway. He was of medium
height, with red hair and blue eyes. He was a well-built fellow with quite a
tan, wearing a sleeveless shirt with blousy pants. He seemed to find no
threat in the entry of a party of armed Amberites into his ship. We all said
hello and introduced ourselves. He insisted on being told our names before he
would identify himself, as we were the guests here. A reasonable pre-
caution, I thought.

"I am your Uncle Mikail," he said with a friendly smile after we had told him
our names. We have all been taught a good deal of family genealogy in the
last few years, but none of us recognized anyone of that name.

He asked us our parentage; we told him. He seemed particularly interested
that Connor was Fiona's child. It was easy to surmise that Mikail was
Connor's full uncle, what with the red hair and all. He quickly confirmed
this, declaring that he was the son of Oberon and Clarissa. He invited us to
go with him to the control room of this vessel, where, incidentally, things
smelled less of camel. We accepted. Soon we were tramping along through
seemingly endless rooms and corridors. When asked about the smell, he said
that the skyship had once been used as a transport for many camels.

"Have you seen Caine recently?" I asked, mindful of our mission.

"No," he replied.

"Dworkin?"

"No."

"The Jewel of Judgment?"

"No." So much for duty.

Valeria asked, "What is your relationship to Amber?"

"I am not one to be much at court," he replied.

Soon we arrived at the control room. In it, besides various..ur...controls,
were a man, a young girl, a picnic basket, and a stuffed bunny. Mikail
introduced the man as Paolo, his half brother; the girl as Cassandra,
daughter of Corwin; and the bunny as Darhyse, a friend of Cassandra.  Paolo
seemed competent, but without the blithe confidence of Mikail. He appeared
dark, slender, and dangerous.

Cassandra looked to be about 12 years old. She had black hair and green eyes,
matching the colors of her dress. In features, she looked rather like a
young, female version of me.

"Who is your mother, Cassandra?" I asked, interested in her family.

"I don't know," she said.

Mikail, clearly leading her for our benefit, asked "And where are you from,
Cassandra?"

"From Pearl," she replied, as if the answer was obvious. I'm sure that, to
her, it was.

"How long has it been since you saw your father?" I asked.

"A couple of days," she said. "How did you get here?"

"We were sent by Fiona," replied Connor, which was technically true.

"Why?"

"We are trying to find Caine," he replied.

She looked at him blankly, suggesting that she had never heard of Caine.

Connor took us aside for a moment and said, "Since Caine isn't here, we
should leave.  After all, for every minute we spend here, much more time is
passing in Amber."

"Does Dad know where I am?" Mikail asked.

We looked at one another. "Not to our knowledge," I said. The others nodded.

Connor, apparently with the idea of leaving, pulled out a Trump
card. Apparently it didn't work, as he frowned, then wandered off to try it
someplace else. Paolo went with him, probably to keep an eye on him.

"So why do you avoid Amber?" I asked Mikail.

"I don't like the political infighting."

We all nodded in understanding. We continued to chat. When asked about the
destination of this craft, he explained that they were following an object
that was traveling in shadow called an obelisk. They pursued it because it
they were curious about its powers. They had been following it for several
hours.

At that point a control device made a beeping sound. Mikail went and spoke
too it, too quietly for us to hear. Suddenly, he appeared nervous.

"Father is here," he declared. Apparently, Connor had succeeded in Trumping
Oberon, who had decided to investigate for himself.

Soon Oberon appeared with Connor and Paolo. He did not look pleased.

"Hello, Dad," said Mikail.

"Hello, son." replied Oberon.

"I guess Mom never told you."

"No. What is your name?"

"Mikail."

"I'll have to speak with your mother about this."

"Say hello for me if you see her."

Oberon looked at Cassandra. She smiled at him. The stuffed bunny suddenly
smiled, reached into the picnic basket, took out a pastry, and took a
bite. This was getting rather strange.

"This is Cassandra," Mikail said, "daughter of Corwin. And this," he said,
indicating the bunny, "is Darhyse."

Cassandra said hello. The bunny didn't respond.

"Well," said Oberon, "I would like to invite all three of you to visit
Amber."

"Four of us, you mean," said Cassandra, holding up the bunny.

"Yes," said Oberon. "Four of you."

"Cassandra," Mikail explained to her quietly, "when he said three he meant
me, Paolo, and you and Darhyse together."

"I see," she said, unconvinced.

Oberon turned to Mikail. "Am I interrupting, or can you accept my invitation
now?" he asked.

"Yes, but there is the obelisk we are following." Mikail described it in
terms I did not understand. It seemed to be some sort of big stone.

Oberon seemed familiar with the phenomenon. "Ah, yes," he said. "I will show
it to you later, if you wish."

"In that case," said Mikail, "we shall be happy to accept."

Oberon pulled out a Trump and looked at it. Then he frowned. "We must be out
of the ship for this to work." Then he led us unerringly through a set of
corridors to another set of doors leading outside the ship. From there, he
Trumped through to Fiona. He spoke to her for a moment and told us to go
through.  I went first, then Mikail. When Fiona saw him, a look of horror
crossed her face and then her expression went entirely blank. He kissed her
on the cheek. She greeted him blandly, seeming almost in shock. Then the
others stepped through.

Mikail chatted with Oberon for a while about family matters. Oberon said he
would try to gather the others together soon, so that he could get to know
them. Mikail thanked him. Then Oberon excused himself, sorted through his
deck of Trump, pulled one out, and made contact. Soon he pulled another
redhead through. From her portraits throughout the castle, I recognized
Clarissa. At her appearance, a look of even greater terror crossed Fiona's
face. She backed away.

"Hello, Mom," said Mikail.

Clarissa kissed him, then turned to Oberon. "I present to you our youngest
son. Since you screwed up with the last one I thought I'd see to him myself."

We all winced. I thought that Oberon would surely display his legendary
temper at that remark, but he merely raised an eyebrow. Clarissa asked that
her son be formally recognized. Oberon agreed, suggesting the upcoming
Patternwalk party for Alastair.  When Mikail asked what that was, he
explained.

"How marvelous," said Mikail.

"You've never had one? We shall have to hold one for you, then." Then he
spoke quietly with Fiona for a moment, and she seemed to calm a bit. Clarissa
greeted her and she appeared almost calm. Oberon then explained about the
class he was teaching and suggested that Mikail might wish to join
it. Mikail replied that his mother had given him lessons, but that a fresh
viewpoint was always appreciated.

Clarissa wandered off and we all proceeded to the classroom. Oberon began to
lecture about the lessons learned from this exercise. Paolo seemed lost, so
Zack and I quietly gave him assistance with some of the obscure terminology.
After Oberon's lecture I chatted with Paolo. We decided to take a stroll into
the city so I could show him a couple of my favorite bars. We ended up at the
Fire and Brimstone, a favorite hangout of the Lancers and other members of
the Amber military. I introduced him around. It soon became apparent that
Paolo was quite a good teller of stories. He entertained the lot of us with
tales of various adventures in Shadow. I don't think many of his stories were
actually true, but that did not detract from their entertainment
value. Others broke in with their stories, all of which seemed especially
clever when told to an audience which included Paolo. When several troopers
asked me to again tell of the charge at the Third Battle of Ak-Nesh, I
related the tale, in which I played a small but not insignificant part.

Soon our stories became less coherent as the effects of serious drinking came
on. I have an excellent capacity for liquor (since finding out my heritage,
my brother Lancers no longer attempt to keep up with me), but Paolo was my
match. I did not really intend to become drunk, but then I don't usually have
a drinking partner with Paolo's tolerance. Some hours later (I'm not sure
quite how many, but I believe that by then we had missed dinner), a sailor
stumbled into the bar. His gait was hardly unusual, but I noticed that he was
sopping wet. I stood up as the men at my table were singing "When the Boys
Came Home," very badly, and went over to investigate. The sailor was wounded
in several places.

As I came up to him, he said to the barkeep, "Gerard's fleet is under
attack. They sunk my ship. I'll have a drink!" Then he fell off his stool and
onto the floor, unconscious.  Several sailors also heard his statement. They
gathered up their companions and raced out of the bar.

I was not thinking clearly and I fear that I embarrassed myself. Fearing for
the safety of Amber, I decided to Trump the King. Fumbling through my deck, I
pulled out his card and concentrated on it hazily. Eventually, I made
contact.

"Yes?" he asked, beginning to notice my unsavory condition.

"Your Majesty, it has come to my attention that Gerard's fleet is under
attack."  Unfortunately, in my inebriated condition my pronunciation was less
than precise.

"I am well aware of that," he said, sounding rather unconcerned.

"Do you have any orders, Sir?" I asked.

"Yes. Get some breath mints." With that, he cut the connection.

As he had stated it as an order, I felt obliged to obtain some breath mints
despite the undoubtedly rhetorical nature of his command. The bartender had
none, but he did offer me something called "monkey chips." They looked
vile. Paolo leaned past me to grab one and ate it.

"I wouldn't eat one of these if I were drunk," he said. "But I'm eating
them. Something's wrong here."

"Someone is attacking Gerard's fleet," I told him.

"Good," he said. "Who's Gerard?"

"One of the Princes," I replied. "My friend. I'm going to jog down to the
harbor to see if there is anything I can do." I thought a jog would help
clear my head.

"You look like you could use someone to keep an eye on you." In my current
state I could not counter his logic. "I'll come along." As I put my cards
away he went over to the Lancers. Soon it became apparent that all of
them--about 25--were coming with us.

We stumbled out into the night and began to jog toward the harbor. After a
few minutes I spotted a pharmacist's shop that was open (fortunately, shops
in Amber tend to keep late hours). Mindful of Oberon's order, I went
in. Paolo and the others followed. As I made my needs known to the
shopkeeper, Paolo came up handed me a bag containing a fine white powder and
a small metal box labeled "Altoids."

"These should do for you," he said. I paid for the two items as Paolo
explained that the box contained breath mints and that the powder, when mixed
with water, was an excellent hangover remedy. I ate a couple of altoids,
finding them curiously strong.  Looking around the shop, I noticed that the
Lancers were beginning to make considerable mischief; several were even
playing a game of coin toss from one end of the shop to another, with a
bedpan as the target.

I marched unsteadily to the door and called, "Lancers, follow me!" With that,
we again charged out blearily into the night. Soon we spotted a burning ship
in the distance. We ran toward it. When we got to the water's edge we found
that, alas, the burning ship was still a considerable distance away. We could
make out other ships beyond the mouth of the harbor; some of them appeared to
be engaged in battle.

I looked around and spotted a good-sized sailboat tied up at a nearby
dock. Paolo and I retrieved two Lancers who had fallen into the harbor and we
all trotted over to the boat, which was named "Lucy." After a bit of
explaining, the crew of the boat agreed to sail us out into the harbor. I
think in retrospect that they were terrified of us, as they refused an offer
of recompense. We all swarmed aboard.

As we helped the sailors cast off, Paolo climbed the mast. "Tally ho!" he
cried.

"That's the spirit!" I shouted. "To the battle!" The sailors looked worried,
but once we were free of the dock they began to tack Lucy in the direction of
the combatant vessels.

Still feeling woozy, I decided that it might help clear my head if I made use
of Paolo's hangover remedy now. I asked a sailor if there was any drinking
water.

"Grog," he replied. "Only grog."

I had him bring me a mug of the stuff. Hanging off the side, I diluted it
with seawater.  I poured the white powder into the mug and mixed it into a
solution. Then I gulped the horrid concoction down.

After perhaps half an hour my head began to hurt. Then it began to hurt some
more.  Soon it felt as if a vice was clamped onto my skull and was in the
process of cracking it open.

At about that time, Paolo shouted, "Ship! Over there!" We all looked in the
direction he pointed. There was, in fact, a large black warship with black
sails bearing quickly down upon us. It's flag was sable a skull over crossed
bones gules. (These fellows clearly know nothing of heraldry, as demonstrated
by the incorrectness and poor contrast of red on black.)  "Excellent!" I
proclaimed loudly. "That is a much better ship. We shall take it and trans-
fer our command." Still, a modicum of worry penetrated my befogged
brain. With considerable effort I managed to climb up near Paolo's perch.

"So, Paolo. How would you suggest that we take that ship?"

"A concerted rush, of course. We are the Lancers!" Apparently he considered
himself an honorary member. Or perhaps the others had enlisted him while I
wasn't looking.

Soon the ship was close enough to hail us. "Ahoy the boat," the captain
shouted. "Do you surrender?"

"No!" I replied. "Do you?" The pirates laughed, damn them. Their ship quickly
pulled up alongside and dropped a ramp from their deck onto our rigging
(their deck was much higher than that of the Lucy).  Paolo, shouting, "Tally
ho!" jumped toward the ramp. He managed to grab it with one hand. At the same
time he dropped his sword, which landed quivering point-first in the deck of
the Lucy next to one of the Lancers, who promptly fainted. Three pirates ran
out onto the ramp and, looking rather amused, began to stomp at Paolo's hand.
Somehow, he managed to change his grip so that they missed. Then he began
working his way along the ramp, holding with one or both hands while the
pirates tried to stomp them. I began to suspect that Paolo was less
intoxicated than he had appeared.

A few of the pirates climbed down onto the deck of our ship. The crew of the
Lucy promptly surrendered, begging for mercy. Meanwhile, I had gotten
together most of the Lancers and we climbed into the rigging toward the
ramp. At one point I was so overwhelmed by the pain in my skull that I had to
pause for a moment. Several others climbed past me while I recovered. They
climbed up to the ramp and engaged two of the pirates. In their inebriated
state my men, although outnumbering the enemy locally, could no more than
hold the two pirates off.

One Lancer named Vastak tried to give me a hand up. Unfortunately, when he
took my hand he lost his balance and fell. I held him dangling, but was
unable to lift him back to his perch. "Don't worry," I told him. "I'll swing
you over to the mast." With a firm heave, I got him moving in the right
direction. He let go my hand to grab the mast, but missed, falling instead to
the deck. This was not going as well as I had hoped.

Meanwhile, Paolo had pulled himself to the other side of the ramp. He swung
himself up onto it and confronted the nearest pirate, who tried to skewer him
with a cutlass.  Paolo stepped to one side, grabbed him by the wrist, and
punched him in the jaw. The pirate fell into the sea like a clubbed ox as
Paolo took his sword. The Lancers, enchanted by his success, began to chant,
"Paolo! Paolo! Paolo!" Paolo, shouting, "Tally ho!" ran onto the deck of the
black pirate ship, heading for their flag.

At about that time, I reached the ramp. I drew Galantine and swung at the
nearest pirate. He parried and retreated. I followed. We had traded only a
few blows when the pirate captain began shouting orders to his crew.

"Disengage!" he yelled. "They're on our side!" The pirates stopped fighting.

There was a pause in which no one said anything. I walked over to the pirate
captain.  "All right," I said. "Just what is going on?"

He explained that he had just received a command from the flagship of his
fleet, ordering him to stop fighting and assist us.

My head was finally clearing. "Very well, Captain," I said. "Please head us
toward the fighting." I got all my men on board the pirate vessel just before
the crew of the Lucy cast off and began sailing back toward Amber. Although I
told them that they should keep their guard up, the Lancers concluded that
the pirates had surrendered and the battle was over. They began wandering the
ship, looking for loot.

I walked over to Paolo, still standing by the flag. "Do you know what's going
on?"

"We have joined the attackers. They are the winning side," he said. He
pointed to the pirate flagship we were quickly approaching. "See those three
on the poop deck-- the two in armor and the other wearing a mask? They are
family."

"Perhaps you have joined the attackers. I still support Gerard. If this ruse
you have somehow arranged will get us closer to the action, then I'll go
along with it."

Paolo shrugged.

Soon we, along with the other large pirate vessel, were approaching Gerard's
flagship.  As we came near they began firing on us. I could not see Gerard. I
shouted his name several times, but he did not appear. Soon it became clear
that his ship contained only a token crew; Gerard had apparently abandoned
the fight. Damn.

We came alongside the pirate flagship, which bore a flag of plain sable with
a tiny inescucheon in one corner that I could not read. Sheathing Galantine
in disgust, I climbed over to the other ship's deck and walked over to the
three Paolo had pointed out to me.  "So, what's going on?" I asked them.

Mikail, who was wearing an elaborate armor in the shape of a dragon, pushed
up his visor. "Not much," he replied, looking bored.

"Gerard isn't on that ship?"

"No. Of course not."

"Has anyone Trumped him?"

"No. I don't have his Trump."

"Allow me." I took out my Trumps and pulled his out. I concentrated on it but
found that he was already engaged in a Trump call. I sighed in disgust and
put away my cards. I'll never be good at this political crap.

I listened to them discuss the situation. The other one in armor was Bleys;
Mikail was trying to tease him into shaving his beard but he would have none
of it. Soon it became clear that this whole affair had been arranged by
Oberon as a means of testing Oberon's defenses. At that point I noticed that
the tiny crest on the pirate flag was, in fact, the king's personal
device--vert a unicorn facing sinister rampant argent.

I turned to the third person--the unarmored one wearing a mask. She was
giving orders to the crew. "Do I know you?" I asked.

My cousin K'rin pulled off her mask. I complimented her on the performance of
her fleet; she seemed pleased.

"Why this attack?" I asked.

"Gerard should not have beaten me at chess," she replied. "Besides, Oberon
thought it would be a good idea."

Bleys and Mikail, who it seemed, had come aboard Erika's craft only a short
while before myself, discussed whether there was anything interesting they
could do now that the embarrassment of their brother Gerard was mostly
complete. Bleys mentioned that there were two Golden Circle kingdoms that
were being invaded by an unknown but powerful outside force. We discussed the
logistics of intervening on the side of Amber's allies. K'rin was not sure
whether her captains would agree to a land battle, but she could certainly
transport us there. Bleys pointed out that we would have to accomplish the
job in time for Alastair's party tomorrow night.

"We should certainly be able to manage that," said Mikail. He Trumped his
Majesty, who brushed him off without actually forbidding our venture.

"It's agreed, then," said Bleys.  Lacking anything better to do, and wishing
to delay my return to the royal presence after my mortifying display of
drunkenness, I accepted their invitation to join them.  Paolo, not
surprisingly, also elected to join our company.

I brought my Lancers onto the pirate flagship. They wanted to celebrate the
mission by drinking with the pirates, but I forbade it. We had shamed our
regiment, I told them, with our recent disreputable performance and would
need to be sober if we were to avoid further disgrace on the morrow. I had to
be stern, but within a few minutes I had confiscated their remaining liquor,
or at least most of it, and saw them bunked down on deck.

Unable to sleep with the remains of my headache, I have taken journal and
lantern in hand and described this day's misadventures. If my performance
tomorrow is as damaging to my reputation as today's botch, I might as well
run out into Shadow and not come back. Alas, if this is the effect that
strong liquor has upon me, I shall have to give it up. Or, at least, give up
drinking with Paolo.  Good night.

 * * *

After sleeping on the deck I awoke rather stiff. I walked about, working a
cramp out of my leg, and encountered Bleys. He looked as if he had spend the
night on a feather bed and dressed with the aid of ten servants. His clothing
was perfectly pressed and all I could smell of him was a subtle cologne. With
him was Mikail, who seemed to have taken up heckling his brother as a hobby.

"So, Bleys," I said. "Tell me about these two shadows and those who are
attacking them."

"The shadows are called Shakra and Tinolo," he said, displaying his perfect
teeth in a smile. "I'm not really sure about the attackers; the person who
told me about this business died in mid-exposition."

Mikail snorted. "Perhaps you should acquire more reliable sources."  Bleys
shrugged. "Get your men up," he told me. "We'll soon be in Shakra."

"Isn't Shakra completely landlocked?" I asked, having been there once.

"We will be shifting into a lake," he said. "K'rin has been called away to
see about some other business, but she was kind enough to leave this ship at
our disposal."

With that, I went to see to the Lancers. They were in surprisingly good
condition after their night of debauchery. Although complaining of hangover
and seasickness I knew that once on dry land they would comport themselves as
the competent soldiers I knew them to be. I told them the plan, such as it
was. Once assured that it had His Majesty's approval, they were all for it.

Soon Bleys had shifted our vessel into what he assured us was the largest
body of water in central Shakra. Unfortunately, central Shakra is quite dry;
the lake he had promised was more of a pond. The ship was, in fact, scraping
bottom in the deepest part of it, and I could not imagine it moving far
enough to shadow-shift it back out.  Fortunately, that was not my
problem. The pirates, on the other hand, seemed none too pleased.

Around the pond the land was dry, hilly, and lightly wooded. In the distance,
to the North, were a castle and a burning town. Closer to us, to the East,
was a military encampment flying the flag of Tinolo, a nearby Golden Circle
kingdom. Near the camp was a good-sized army performing battle drills. At the
head of the army I recognized a thin, long-haired figure: Benedict. To the
Northeast a battle was going on, which Benedict's army was ignoring
completely. The battle was between a human army, bearing Shakra standards,
and a force of grey insectoids. We all disembarked while taking in the
scenery.

Bleys took out his deck of Trumps and contacted Benedict. After conversing
briefly he terminated the contact and explained the situation to us. Benedict
had apparently been sent by Oberon to act as an advisor and observer. He had
a reserve of troops to use in the event that the situation turned out to be
worse than expected, but was not currently anticipating a need to commit
them. Benedict had no objections, however, to our intervening in the current
fray.

Upon completing his explanation, Bleys whistled. Within moments, a beautiful
white horse galloped up. Nice trick, that. He mounted and spoke for a short
while with the pirates. They were not pleased to be landbound, but were
cheered at the prospect of a battle. They began to jog toward it. Bleys, in
turn, charged past them. Mikail followed on foot, soon speeding ahead and
overtaking Bleys by some means I do not understand.

I nudged Paolo. "We Lancers had best find some horses, eh?"

A look of delight came over his face. "Horses!" he shouted. "Tally ho!"
Paolo immediately began to jog toward Benedict's encampment, where he had
spotted a corral full of horses. With a shrug, I called for the Lancers to
follow me and trotted after him. When we arrived at the corral, Paolo had
knocked a guard unconscious, saddled a horse, and mounted it. We all selected
mounts and readied them. As one, we headed toward the battle. By that time
Bleys and Mikail had worked their way through the Chakran army and hit the
enemy center. The pirates were headed toward the left flank, so we went to
the right.

Circling `round, we looked for some command center or group that the bugs
might be protecting. Nothing. They were a uniform mass, pressing efficiently
toward the enemy front. As we came closer, I observed that they each had six
arms and four legs. Covered in grey chitin, they carried a sword or other
weapon in each hand. We charged along the enemy rear, engaging clumps of the
enemy forces as we went.  The insects turned out to be rather a minor
threat. They were clumsy and slow to react to our movement. Also, they were
weaker than they looked and more fragile. Their blood was a yellowish green
substance that was quite disgusting. Still, there were quite a few of them
and it was some time before we killed them all. Mikail, it turned out, could
fly, or at least levitate. He buzzed along above their heads in his dragon
armor, wielding two curved sabres with lethal efficiency. Bleys, not to be
outdone by his little brother, got his horse up into the air also, riding
along and picking off bugs without getting any of their mess on him or his
mount. Paolo, screaming "tally ho!" like a mad- man, engaged in absurd feats
of acrobatics as he leaped and twirled over their heads. It seems that the
laws of physics have given up entirely on enforcing themselves upon my
brethren.

Once they were mostly dead and the Chakran army was cheering us and mopping
up the remaining bugs, I rode over to Bleys.

"Don't you know of any interesting wars?" I asked.

He pointed toward the crest of a nearby ridge. Over it was pouring a huge
army of Chaos demons. In the sky were hundreds of wyverns ridden by humanoid
monsters.

"Oh," I said. "That will do very nicely, thanks."

"I believe we should consider asking for assistance," said Bleys.

"You call Benedict," I told him. "I'll call His Majesty."

Recalling my most recent Trump conversation with the King and the
embarrassment I had brought upon myself, I pulled out my deck. With
considerable trepidation I sorted out his card and concentrated upon it.

He answered quickly. "Well?"

"Majesty, there appears to be a Chaos army invading the Golden Circle, moving
toward Amber."

"I'm aware of that. Where are you?"

"Near Benedict's army with Bleys, Mikail, and Paolo."

"Good. I'll send troops elsewhere, then." By that I supposed he meant that
there were other places, more threatened, in need of troops. This could be a
problem.

"Do you have any specific orders?"

"Yes. Deal with them, Sir." Oberon cut the contact.

Pleased at not having made an idiot out of myself (and that he called me,
"Sir"), I turned to Bleys. He had dismounted and was just finishing his
conversation. Paolo had jumped on Bleys' horse and was trying to make him
go. I can only surmise that Paolo wanted to fly up to fight the
wyverns. Bleys' horse was having none of it. Cursing, Paolo got back onto his
own horse.

Bleys pulled Benedict through.

"Orders, Your Highness?" I asked him.

"I'll take that side," he said, looking grim as he pointed to the enemy left
flank. "You take the other side." He started trotting toward the enemy
army. His own force was still perhaps a mile away.

"Lancers, we have the right flank," I announced. A bit fatigued from the
recent fight, still they drew steel and prepared to charge.

"I will join you," said Bleys.

"Your Highness, we would be most honored," I told him.  Then we rode forth to
confront our enemies in open battle. I must admit that I was fearful. When
last I had engaged the forces of Chaos things had not gone well for me.
Their army was huge, covering a dense frontage of perhaps a mile and of
unknown but considerable depth. Once Benedict's full force arrived, we would
have no more than ten or twelve thousand men, many of them still disordered
from their recent combat with the insectoids. On the other hand, we had four
members of the royal family of Amber, as well as Paolo--whatever he was,
exactly.

The battle was fierce. To our right, I saw Benedict walking calmly back and
forth through the Chaos line, slaying everything that came near. All attacks
against him seem to miss without his having to notice them, and his deadly
strikes appeared almost lazy.

I must admit that I am perplexed. In the battles today I have seen various of
my relatives wade into huge masses of fairly competent troops as if they
were facing unarmed children. I understand that Benedict, Bleys, and others
have studied the arts of war and personal combat for thousands of years. Yet
I don't understand how they can do that.

I remember seeing Bleys fight his way up the steps of Kolvir. We could only
come at him one at a time, and he killed hundreds of us. Finally, he was
pulled off the steps by a dying man. Corwin fought his way up the rest of the
way. Then, after we killed his troops, he was one man against several
hundred, out in the open. We were hampered by orders not to kill him, but
under those circumstances it was fairly easy to take him down, although he
did kill some brave men in the process. If we could defeat Corwin without
much trouble (and I have heard rumor that Corwin beat even Benedict in an
encounter on the Black Road), then how could Benedict stroll among a horde of
Chaosites like he was taking a walk in the park? How can Paulo accomplish
ridiculous acrobatic feats amid hundreds of enemies who are doing their best
to skewer him? Am I the only one who risked his life today? Was this a
pleasant little diversion cooked up by Oberon for the amusement of his
family? I know that the enemy was not without skill, because I fought
them. They were not the best I have ever faced, but they were not the worst
by any means. It makes no sense to me.

Anyway, it happened whether I can explain it or not. Paulo seemed very
familiar with the enemy. Twice I even heard him call one of them by name as
he slew them. Mikail flew through the sky, trailing fire from his dragon
armor and killing squadrons of Chaos warriors on griffins. Then he dove
toward the enemy center, where the commanders were, and rained fire down
upon them.

Something happened then that I didn't get a clear picture of at the
time. Paulo explained it to me afterward. Apparently, once Paulo had
penetrated near the enemy center, he Trumped in Oberon, Clarissa, Zack, some
others I did not recognize, and some of Clarissa's troops. Most of the Chaos
army immediately concentrated on attacking them. Out at the front line, we
had an easy time of it, as the enemy line suddenly turned their backs on
us. We pressed them hard, slaying many from behind.

Meanwhile, Oberon and his forces withstood the onslaught long enough to cast
some vast, dark spell. In an instant, all of the enemy leaders, with most of
their reserve forces, ceased to exist. Gone.

Oberon and most of his people then Trumped out to deal with some other
attack. The remaining enemy army, demoralized, proved an easy target. Within
about an hour, all of them were dead or fled from the battlefield. While I
was organizing a pursuit of the scattered enemy forces, I received a Trump
call from His Majesty.

"I need help defending Arden," he said. "Do you have any troops?"

"Not many," I said, "but those I have are yours."

"Good," he said, seeming a bit tired. "Not everyone has been as successful as
you seem to have been."

I called out to my men--those who remained--that His Majesty had further need
of our services. Brave lads, all of them. Although they were all dead tired
and some were wounded, they got back on their horses and came over to me. I
passed them through the Trump, then came through myself. We were in Forest
Arden, where, apparently, thousands of Chaos troops were scattered about in
no clear order. Most of my regiment was there, along with other units. I
gathered together a goodly force and we went hunting demons. It was just like
old times in Garnath, only this time they were the hunted.  Soon Connor
arrived, beset by thirty or so demons. We dispatched them. He seemed to
attract them like moths to a flame, so we stayed to protect him. He threw
attack spells here and there while we fended off their charges. After perhaps
twenty minutes of hot fighting, a large contingent of Lancers arrived to
reinforce us. We slew all of the nearby enemy, formed into an organized unit,
and began roving through Arden.  Within an hour, there were no more demons to
be found; in fact, we argued twice with other forces over who got to chase
down one or another defiant clump of them.

Finally, we heard that Oberon wanted family members and unit commanders to go
to his command post. As I fell into both of those categories, I made
arrangements for the disposition of the troops and made my way to where he
had his throne set up in front of a tent. I heard a rumor that he, apparently
angry that a Chaos army had penetrated into Arden, had personally attacked
Julian and injured him. I arrived near the tent as a Oberon oversaw the
execution of a group of prisoners. Although I have every reason to hate them,
I was still uncomfortable with killing prisoners. Perhaps it would look different
if I sat in His Majesty's seat.

Soon Oberon called everyone to order, as a large and rambunctious crowd had
gathered. He introduced Martin, Random's son, who was the Ambassador to
Chaos. Martin told of the demotion of House Hendrake to commoner status. The
leaders of Hendrake, figuring they had nothing to lose, had decided to attack
Amber in a desperate gamble.  They had failed, and all of Hendrake was
dead. He wondered how we should speak of this to the Lords of Chaos.

"Any opinions?" asked Oberon. "Shall we just say it was nothing?"

There ensued a discussion in which some, myself included, wanted to pretend
that nothing had happened. Others, led by Zack, were afraid that they would
be insulted by our brashness in ignoring the attack.  May the Unicorn save us
from diplomats.

Finally, it was decided that Martin would not mention the attack and that, if
asked, he would give as little information as possible. Then he Trumped out.

"It looks like we've sustained some losses," said Oberon, "but I believe a
victory party is in order." There was a cheer and most everyone went back
toward Kolvir. Bleys headed off through Arden with some troops, no doubt
pursuing some plot, while Julian stayed to organize the cleanup. He seemed
wrathful; no one wanted to be in range of his vin- dictive temper just then,
so no one stayed.

I rode back to the castle and went straight to my room. After disposing of my
ruined uniform, I scraped off layers of ichor and gore. I got a medic to
stitch up a couple of nasty cuts, then took a long, hot bath. While I soaked
I counted the losses. Of twenty-five Lancers who embarked on the drunken
sailing expedition, fourteen were dead: Hans, Narven, Salaris, Thikajok,
Njal, Edward, Komoko, Elaine, Chai Ko, Dalime, Boriven, Harista, and Izhik. I
had known several of them well, especially Njal, who had a wife, Francesca,
and two twin boys. I remember their wedding, and I remember the night his
sons were born. Others I had known not at all. I know they were brave and
they followed me and they fought well and I got them killed. Without me they
would have been in the fighting, and perhaps some of them would have died
anyway.  I sat in my bath for a long time and drank cognac and
remembered. Then I got up and dressed in my best uniform for the party. I had
a message sent to Serena, requesting the honor of accompanying her to this
event. A note returned saying that she had had a date, but that she would
break it. When she arrived her dress was a perfect match for the crimson
shade of my uniform. It was an elegant gown in several shades of red and
russet, with quite a low neckline. Her hair was up and decorated with pearls,
as were her neck and ears. She was stunning.

When we made our entrance we found that many of the guests had already
arrived.  Oberon and Clarissa looked relaxed and comfortable
together. Benedict stood behind them, a glow of warm confidence upon his
long, usually dour countenance. I heard later that he had single-handedly
stopped three separate attacks. Flora had clearly been giving Fiona fashion
advice, as she was attired with much greater panache than was her usual
wont. Flora herself was, naturally, radiant, in a crimson gown that displayed
just the right amount of cleavage. Paolo looked dashing in a Lancer's
uniform. Perhaps he had joined the regiment after all.

I noticed K'rin laughing loudly with a man who looked much like her
father. They were dressed in matching sable and emerald green. Perhaps she
has some sort of thing for her daddy. Gerard came in, not dressed in his
customary admiral's uniform. Looking grim, he marched up to K'rin and tried
to give her a bundle, presumably containing said uniform. I didn't hear the
conversation but it appeared that she was unwilling to accept it.

We danced for some time before dinner, looking, I am sure, quite fine
together. I remember little of dinner conversation as the food was delicious
and I was famished.  Afterward, while Serene conducted some of her dreary
diplomatic business, I went over to high table and chatted with Cassandra.
Pearl, I learned from her, is a kingdom. There is a castle at the center,
although Cassandra did not know its name. There are many duchies and
baronies. There are other shadows and some sort of inter-shadow commerce of
the sort that Amber practices with the Golden Circle. Darhyse, her "pet
cat" is a type of creature called a Sha'um; they are pack animals that
communicate telepathically and have the ability to walk in Shadow. Corwin had
sent Cassandra with Darhyse to Amber, but she had met with Mikail on the
way. Soon thereafter, they encountered us on our failed expedition to find
Caine.

We discussed the possibility of going to Pearl, and soon decided that we
would travel there in a few days. I wanted to meet Corwin, who could be my
father.  Serena came by and I introduced her to Cassandra, who liked her
immediately. We brought Cassandra over to meet her brother Merlin. He was
sitting in a corner with a thin woman, whom he introduced as the princess of
something or other. They both seemed rather distant; Merlin hardly spoke to
his sister. I said we were planning on traveling to Pearl and asked if he had
any message for his father.

"There is a barrier," he said. "It prevents entry to Pearl."

"Have you crossed this barrier?" I asked.

"No. That was a risk I have not been willing to endure."

"Have you spoken with him lately?" asked Cassandra.

"No."

"So you can Trump him?" I asked. Corwin had not responded to anyone else's
Trump calls in a very long time.

"No. Trump can't reach Pearl, but I have a means of communication."

He would not elaborate further, and it became clear that Merlin and his lady
would rather be alone together. We left them so.  Serena whispered to me that
she really can't stand him.

Cassandra said that she was tired and wanted to go to bed. We bid her
goodnight.  Later, Serena and I went for a walk in the garden. After
stumbling past several secluded spots that were already occupied, we found a
dark niche of our own. I found that it was easier to remove her dress than it
appeared.

The next morning we slept late in my room. Around eleven Serena left, saying
she had an appointment that she could not miss. I ordered a cup of cocoa and
caught up on this journal.

 * * *

After breakfast I went to the upper town to speak with Njal's wife
Francesca. She had already been told of his death. She was quietly
distraught, clearly trying to be brave for her boys. I said what little that
I could and tried to comfort her. If she or the boys needed anything, I told
her, I would be pleased to help. She thanked me hollowly.  Soon, feeling
uncomfortable and guilty, I left.

 Later I rode back to the castle. I inquired of the servants regarding the
whereabouts of Valeria, and they told me she was at the archery range. I went
there and watched her shoot for awhile, noting her impressive skill. When she
was done, I applauded. She smiled.

We exchanged pleasantries. "I heard that you are known as a composer," I told
her, "and I would like to ask a favor."

"Yes?"

"I would like to commission a song for some of my friends who died in the
recent battle."

"I see. What do you offer in return?"

"My lady cousin, I would owe you a great favor."

"Done," she said. "Who are the people I am to write about?"

I told her the story of the last two days, from the revelry at the Fire and
Brimstone tavern to the battle in Arden. I told her the names of the fallen
and asked her to memorialize them in song. She told me it would take her some
time, but that she would see what she could come up with. I thanked her and
left.

Lunch was, at first, unremarkable. Oberon was absent, but Clarissa assumed
her now- accustomed seat beside his. Then she stood and made an announcement.

"I have decided," she said when she had gotten everyone's attention, "that I
do not wish to be queen. Therefore, it will be necessary to find a
replacement. I will be interviewing candidates for the position after
lunch. Thank you."

I had some difficulty controlling my laughter long enough to make my exit (I
am sure that she would have no tolerance for my amusement and might turn me
into something awful if she witnessed it). When I made it a safe distance I
spent several minutes convulsed with laughter. How utterly ridiculous!

When I was fully composed I returned and finished my lunch. The hall was
abuzz with rumors regarding Clarissa's intentions and the chances of various
candidates. I didn't listen. Later I went and had a sauna. Then I wandered
the castle, lost in thought, and happened to go into one of the libraries. I
spotted Merlin engaged in some research. After the snub last night I tried to
ignore him, but he called out to me.

"Malachai, last night you said you were interested in sending Corwin a
message," he said.

"No," I replied. "I said that I would be going to Pearl with Cassandra and
asked if you had a message for him."

"Well, that sounds interesting," he said. "Would you mind if I came along?"

"No. I have no objection. I'll talk with Cassandra about it and get back to
you."

"Good. I will talk to you later, then." He stood, shelved the book he had
been reading, and left.  I dithered about for the rest of the afternoon. I
looked for Cassandra, but could not find her. Later on, I went to dinner. I
noticed a group of insipid-looking women sitting around a table and trying to
catch the attention of the Clarissa. These must be the applicants. Clarissa
ignored them.

I sat with Merlin, who was considerably friendlier than he had been the night
before.  We discussed the vapid applicants, whom we soon began referring to
as VA's, speculating upon what they might be willing to do in order to win
Clarissa's approval. We wandered about and spread some wicked rumors.

After dinner, I chatted with Cassandra. "I spoke with Merlin today," I
said. "He's interested in coming with us to Pearl."

"I don't think he really likes me," she said.

"He was distracted, I think. He can be much nicer than that."

"I guess..."

"I'll ask him to talk with you sometime."

"OK," she said, uncertainly.

"So when would you like to leave?" I asked.

"Well, I'm having fun here..."

"A couple of days? A week? A month?"

"Can I let you know?"

"Sure," I said. "What have you been doing in Amber?"

"Exploring the castle. There are lots of places behind the walls."

"I know. There are some places that seem to be different every time you go
there."

"Wow."

We chatted for awhile longer, then she said she had to find Darhyse, who was
off playing with K'rin and Raven. I don't want to think about what they might
consider "playing."

I retired fairly early. I took another bath, then sat down and caught up on
this journal.  I am finding it an excellent way to clarify my thoughts on the
complicated maneuverings that have characterized the scene here in Amber of
late.

 * * *

The next morning I got a note from Serena. She said that she had a small
problem and asked if I could help her with a local matter of
politics. Politics, pfooie. I finished my breakfast and got dressed. It
seemed that I must give all in service to my lady. I dressed comfortably in
loose dark-red trousers with riding boots, a purple cotton shirt, and a
wide-brimmed felt hat with red feather in the brim. I pocketed an apple left
over from breakfast and made my way to the stables. There I met Bucephalus,
who reminded me that I had been neglecting him recently. I apologized and
gave him the apple. He seemed mollified, but made it clear that he would not
be so forgiving were I to repeat my offense in the future. I saddled him and
we made our way down into the city. I reflected on the weather, which was, as
always, pleasant. I wish there were real weather here--storms and snow, heat
and cold, sleet and hail. Then a day like this would be remarkable and
thereby more enjoyable.

We arrived at Serena's house and I placed Bucephalus in the care of a
servant. They looked at each other warily and decided that they could, at
least, have a professional relationship. While they continued negotiations, I
made my way into the foyer.  Through the doors of Serena's study, I heard a
heated argument in progress. Entering, I discovered two men in the dress of
wealthy merchants engaged in a stormy discussion related to grapes and
wine. How tiresome.

Serena sat at her desk before them, looking monumentally bored. At my
appearance, she smiled and said, "Welcome, Prince Malachai." Upon hearing my
title, they looked at me and the pace of their argument slowed somewhat.

"What is this?" I asked her.

"It seems that these two gentlemen have a dispute over some wine."

"A pastime in which I too have been known to indulge."

"Disputes over wine? No, these gentlemen have a disagreement over selling
wine. You see, this fellow planted vines on this other fellow's land. Now
that the grapes have been harvested, producing a remarkable vintage, each
claims the right to the wine."

Both began correcting her, presenting their own sides of the story. I shushed
them and they quieted.

"They are waiting for my father," she continued, "as they are both natives of
my home shadow. When he returns, they want him to give them a judgment on the
matter."  "So they do not accept your authority to make a ruling in your
father's stead?" Serena had recently told me that her father's death was not
known in her home shadow. She had delayed telling the authorities of his
demise because she despised the man who would replace him.

"No. I am only my father's assistant."

"Then what are they doing here arguing in your house?"

"Waiting for my father. I have explain that he will not be returning for
several days, but they insist on staying until he arrives." She got a little
sparkle in her eye. "However, I might point out that the law allows a member
of the Amber royal family, such as yourself, to step in and make a ruling on
any civil dispute of this nature."

At this, the disputants fell silent.  "In fact," she continued, "you may make
any decision you wish regarding the contested property, even to confiscating
it yourself." She winked at me.

Each of the vintners protested vehemently, but Serena quickly recited a list
of applicable laws and legal precedents.

"In that case," I said, "would you find it convenient if I offered my
services as an impartial arbitrator?"

Over the continued protests of the vintners, she said, "It would be most
convenient, Your Highness."

"Very well, I think I can clear this up rather quickly. Do you have any
device by which we can measure a duration of about five minutes?"

An egg timer was produced. I flipped a coin and pointed to the
landowner. "You're first. You have five minutes to present your case."

Looking fearful, he told me how he had, by long-standing family tradition,
kept a certain plot of land fallow for a decade. Recently, he discovered
that the other fellow had grown grapes on this land and made it into
wine. Since the land was his, he said, he should have the wine. I cut him off
when the timer went off, then listened to his opponent. He told me how he,
noticing an unused chunk of land, had spent several years ploughing and
fertilizing it. Several years' grapes had been dismal failures, but he had
persevered. When the grapes had finally turned up good, he had carefully har-
vested them and...

Time was up. They both started talking again; I told them to be silent. Then
I thought for a moment.

My course was clear. "Since both of you have contributed to this product, one
through labor and the other through property, you shall share in the
benefits. All profits will be divided between you equally. Good day,
gentlemen."

They wanted to argue some more, but I made it clear that if they did not
consider the matter closed, then I would have to confiscate the wine
myself. That shut them up.  Serena summoned an official, who agreed to
preside over the division of the wine in exchange for a small percentage. The
two vintners, transferring the object of their harangue to him, left.

"Thank you, Malachai."

"It was my pleasure to be of service, Madame."

"What are your plans for the rest of the day?" she asked.

"Why, my lady, I have none."

She got that gleam in her eye again. "Then what say you to a walk in the
garden?"

This was a garden we had walked before. It had several comfortable and
secluded spots where we had made scientific studies of a biological nature.

"I say yes, for there is nothing I would rather do. After our walk, perhaps
we might go riding in Garnath."

"A fine idea. I shall have a picnic lunch packed. If you would be so kind as
to wait while I change out of these clothes." She was dressed fetchingly, if
uncomfortably, in a formal dress from her native shadow.

"But of course."

Serena left and soon returned in more practical garb. Her hair was braided
and she wore knee-length riding boots and back riding pants. A blousy shirt
of white silk, a blue vest, and an opal brooch completed her outfit. I gazed
upon her admiringly for a moment before offering her my arm. We strolled
slowly out to the garden where we willed away an hour with continued
attention to our studies.

Later, we took Bucephalus and her tan mare on a tour of southeast Garnath. We
stopped by the river, ate lunch, and had a swim. We had just dressed when a
trooper in the uniform of the 1st Lancers rode up. He identified himself as a
messenger from Captain Prospero, and handed me a note. More politics.

The note concerned events at lunch in the Castle. It seemed that Clarissa had
told Oberon about her plan for selecting the next queen. He had shown no
clear reaction.  Then Llwella had introduced Romar, King of a shadow called
Awol, which was newly admitted to the Golden Circle. Romar would take charge
of Amber's maritime defenses.  Prospero had thought I'd be interested in
these developments.

I was pleased by neither bit of news. That His Majesty would continue to
allow Clarissa to so blatantly direct the affairs of state was quite
disturbing. That he would entrust the defenses of Amber to a shadow-dweller
from an unknown kingdom seemed absurd. There did not seem to be anything I
could do at this time, however. I thanked the messenger and sent him off
without a reply.

We sat by the river for another hour, then made our way back in a leisurely
manner.  Once back at the castle I inquired as to Cassandra's whereabouts,
since I wanted to talk with her about our expedition to Pearl. A servant told
me that a large cat had been spotted somewhere up Kolvir toward the Grove of
the Unicorn. I thanked her and Serena and I made our way up the path in that
direction.  It was eventide, just after sunset, when we spotted Darhyse with
a small person and a man obscured by shadows at the side of the path. As we
rode closer, it became clear that the person of small stature was Cassandra,
but our view of the man was blocked, perhaps by magic.

"Were you sent to look for us?" asked Cassandra.

"No," I told her, "we were looking for you because I wanted to talk to
you. Who is your companion?"

"Merlin."  He stepped out from his shadow. "Hello Malachai. Serena."

"I'm glad we met you," said Cassandra. "Merlin and I were talking about going
to Pearl and I was wondering if the two of you wanted to come along?"

The two of us? I hadn't considered taking Serena. I wasn't sure that I would
be comfortable exposing her to that kind of danger.

"What do you think, Serena?"

"I'd like to go."

Drat. "It could be very dangerous."

"I'm sure that you would protect me," she said. Merlin snickered almost
imperceptibly.

Accepting defeat, I said, "Well, if you want to come, and Cassandra and
Merlin agree, then I cannot object."

We chatted for a bit. It appeared that Cassandra and Merlin had worked out
their differences. Soon we were met by Zack and two ladies, strolling up
the path. We exchanged pleasantries and court gossip, then the three of them
continued on their way, perhaps in pursuit of more private conversation.

"So," I asked, "when shall we leave? Tomorrow?"

"How about the day after," said Cassandra. "I have an appointment."

"Suits me," Merlin said.

"Fine," Serena said.

"Then it's settled."

Serena, Cassandra, and I decided to go down to the castle for dinner. Merlin
wanted to stay and enjoy the night air. As we prepared to leave, he bowed low
to Serena.

We rode down the hill. Soon we encountered a person at the crossroads leading
to the Grove of the Unicorn. He was so large that at first I thought him to
be Gerard, but as we came closer he turned out to be Oberon.

"Good evening, my family," he said, "and possible family to be." He winked at
Serena.  We greeted him. Just what I need, I thought: Oberon deciding to run
my life the way Clarissa was apparently running his.

"I had been on my way to gain the counsel of the Unicorn, but it seems
counsel has been handed me. I have been very busy, and I just got to the
scroll given me by Cassandra. I must go quickly to Pearl, as it seems Corwin
has found Caine and is in need of assistance. I do not have time to go
myself, however.  I would like you to make the journey for me. Once there,
you can Trump me through."

"Merlin believes that Trump do not work between here and Pearl," I
said. "There is some sort of barrier."

"Then you may need to Trump me before you pass it," he said.

"Where in Pearl do you need to go?" asked Cassandra.

"I believe I need to be at Corwin's Pattern."

"Then perhaps you should speak with my father."

"It was he who invited me."

"Oh."

"As you may know, we had planned on going there ourselves," I said. "Our
intention was to leave the day after tomorrow."

"Sooner would be better," he said.

"In that case," I asked," may we leave tomorrow morning, or is it necessary
that we leave tonight?"

"I believe I have wasted enough time that a night's further delay won't
matter," he said.

"Very well," I said, we will leave in the morning. If you will give us your
leave to depart, we shall go and make preparations."

"I'll go talk to Merlin," said Cassandra. "I'll meet you at dinner."

Serena and I bade farewell to Oberon and Cassandra. After they were out of
earshot, she said, "Given the urgency of the mission, perhaps I shouldn't
go."

I was unsure of how to reply. On the one hand, the mission might be dangerous
and I might not be able to protect her. On the other hand, I would like to
have her go and did not want to insult her by telling her that I didn't think
she could take care of herself.

"I will leave that to your judgment," I said.

"Well, I would like to stay in your company, but Oberon may not want me to
go."

"He didn't forbid it," I told her. "If you would like to go, then you are
welcome."

"Very well, " she said, "I will go."

"All right," I said. "This must seem very sudden. Are there preparations you
should make? Your staff..."

"I'm sure they can handle things. In fact, I will tell them that we are
leaving tonight and meet you at your rooms later. That would be simpler."

We leered at each other. "Very well," I said. "It shall be as you say." By
then we had arrived at the castle. We said farewell and she headed down to
the city. I stabled Bucephalus, promising him that we would go on a trip
tomorrow. Then I went to dinner.

When I entered the dining hall Mikail called me over. He said that he was
going off with K'rin, Zack, Rivka, Valeria, and Paolo on an expedition to
look for Caine.  Suddenly my Amberite instincts, long dormant, came to the
fore. I did not tell him that we also would be looking for Caine. Nor did I
inquire why he was taking Rivka, who, so far as anyone knew, was just a
servant girl.

"Is this your idea or is someone sending you on this mission?" I asked.

"Oberon's. I offered to provide some lessons for the others and Caine seemed
like a good destination. I hear you are off on some other excursion?"

"Yes," I said. "Merlin, Cassandra, Serena, and I are going to Pearl."

"Very good. I've never been there, myself."

"So where are you planning to look for Caine?"

"I figured that Caine might be beyond Shadow. So that's where we'll go."

"Beyond Shadow? What could be beyond Shadow?"

He told me of a place called the Sea of Chance. It was, he said, a vast
place, constantly shifting. One must be careful to avoid being caught in the
constant changes that occur there. An Amberite might possibly survive due to
the influence of the Pattern, but he wasn't sure.

"I do not volunteer myself as an experimental subject," I said. He chuckled.

We continued to chat. The first step, he said, would be to acquire a vessel,
such as the one in which we had first encountered him. If possible, he would
borrow a better one, called Dalkontyr, from his mother.

Cassandra and Darhyse came into the room. She waved at us and went over to
talk to Fiona and Darkstar. She must have said something hilarious, because
Fiona was soon on the floor, convulsed with laughter. Soon she and Darhyse
came over to visit us.

"What was so funny?" I asked.

"Oh," said Cassandra, looking embarrassed. "Fiona thought I was talking about
something, but I was really talking about something else."

Mikail snorted. "Redheads have dirty minds."

K'rin made her entrance at that point. I usually find her brash but bearable,
but tonight she was obnoxious. When Mikail started to tell Cassandra that
purpose of his trip would be to help train the others, she thought it
ridiculous that he might have anything to teach her.

"I am older than you, you know," she sneered.

Cassandra was quite offended. "Are you getting stupid in your old age?" she
asked K'rin.

I don't think K'rin knew how to deal with an insult from a child. She walked
off in a huff.

Valeria came over and said hello. She had a sheaf of papers that, apparently,
were a section of Paolo's journal. He had given them to Oberon, who had
allowed the others who were going with Mikail to read it. I asked if I might
look it over, and Valeria gave it to me. Since Mikail wanted to take it with
him (they were to leave an hour after dinner), I read it there. It was about
30 pages long, documenting a "lesson" in shadow provided by Clarissa to Paolo
and Mikail. It sounded quite nasty; I'm glad she's not my mother.

Later, Cassandra and I met them at the stables to see them off. Mikail
explained that their first destination was the Courts of Chaos, where they
would acquire Dalkontyr.  One of Clarissa's vapid applicants arrived, then
shapeshifted into Paolo. He had, apparently, been amusing himself among
them. He seems to absorb the identity of those around him; first a lancer,
now one of those foolish women. Cassandra arrived with Darhyse, who was again
in the shape of a small stuffed bunny. Cassandra carried a bottle of wine,
which she presented to Mikail as a going-away present.

Mikail thanked her solemnly. "I too have a present for each of you," he
said. Then he passed out amulets of black obsidian on silver chains. I
examined mine and found it, unsurprisingly, to be quite a nice piece.

Mikail showed that he wore one also. "They are protective devices," he
said. "Worn in contact with the skin, they afford a significant degree of
invulnerability."

"Against what?" I asked.

"Many things," he said vaguely.

"Then perhaps it would be better to say that they give resistance, not
invulnerability."  Maybe I was splitting hairs.

"As you say," he said.

He demonstrated that if one turned the jewel in a certain manner, a large
black cloak formed around the wearer that could protect two or three people.
I pulled out my dagger and found that, while wearing the pendant, I could not
cut myself with it. I pulled out Galantine and, cutting myself on the arm,
was pleased to find that I was not proof against her superior steel. I
noticed Mikail appraising my sword and thought that it might have been wiser
if I had performed my experiment in private, since he now had a better idea
of my capabilities. Oh, well, I am not yet as paranoid as most of my family.

I thanked him for the present.

"You're welcome." He held out another. "This one is for your lady."

"Good. Then I won't have to give her mine. Thanks again."

Mikail offered one to Darhyse, but she didn't seem interested. Then two
winged balls appeared out of the night.

"Those are Clarissa's eyes and ears," Mikail said wearily. "They will follow
and keep tabs on us."

Paolo produced a net and threw it over one; it fell to the ground.

"If we anger Clarissa, then Dalkontyr might not be there when we try to pick
him up," Mikail pointed out.

Paolo shrugged. He clapped and the net sprang back into his hand. A neat
trick. "We'll get rid of them after we have Dalkontyr," he said.

Mikail agreed.

Then they were off. We waved goodbye as they made their way off into the
night, then headed back to the castle ourselves.

"Goodnight, Malachai," Cassandra said. "Come to my rooms in the morning. We
can all have breakfast before we leave."

"All right," I said. "Goodnight."

I went to my rooms. While waiting for Serena to arrive, I have caught up on
this journal. I hope she gets here soon.

 * * *

That evening, as I wrote in this journal, I heard a knock at the
door. Opening it, I saw a servant boy. "I'm here with clean linen, sir," he
said.

"Just put it in the closet," I told him, turning back to my writing.

He came in and headed toward the bed.  "I said just..." There before me was
Serena, dressed as the boy had been.

"How did you...?" I asked dumbly.

She smiled, took a ring out of her pocket, and put it on her
finger. Instantly, she transformed into a boy. He had Serena's general
features and coloring, but with a definite masculine cast.

"That's quite a trick," I said. "What is that."

"A magic ring," she said. "It's a family heirloom."

"Does it shapeshift you or cast some sort of glamour?"

"Shapeshift," she said.

"Does it have other forms?"

"It doesn't work like that. It changes you into what you would look like if
you were the opposite gender. I got it from an uncle who's female form is
quite an imposing old woman."

"Interesting," I said.

"Care to try?" she said, proffering the ring.

"All right." I took the ring from her and put it on. There was a momentary
feeling of oddness, as if my skin were infested with cobwebs, and then I had
changed. My body felt different; I was smaller and could feel curves I was
unfamiliar with. It was very strange. I found it intriguing and disturbing,
but unlike the changes I experienced when I was captured by the
Hendrakes. Although, I thought, I would like to experiment with this later,
for now it was rather too much. I took the ring off.

"Do you have any other little tricks I should be aware of?" I asked.

She smiled lasciviously.  "I mean magical items."

"Oh." She dimpled. "Well, there is this." She reached into her bag and pulled
out a wineskin. "Try some."

I sampled it. "Not a bad vintage, but nothing special," I said.

"How much wine is in the skin?" she asked.

"Why it's...completely full."

"Yes. It stays full no matter how much you drink."

"That could prove useful on a long journey. I have something for you." I
said.

"Oh, really. How thoughtful."

"Actually, it's a present from Mikail." I showed her the pendant he had given
me for her and the matching piece that I wore.

"Very nice work," she said, examining hers. "I didn't know he was such a
craftsman."

"There is more to it than that. It provides a magical protection from
physical harm." I took out my dagger and demonstrated its inability to cut
me.

"How wonderful," she said. She borrowed my dagger and tried on herself.

"The protection is not universal. Galantine can cut through it, for example,
as she is an extraordinary blade."

"I'm sure you will protect me," she said. When I explained that I couldn't
protect her from everything, she wouldn't hear of it. I hope that attitude
doesn't get her killed.

I also showed her how, when the stone was given a one-quarter turn
widdershins, it created a voluminous black cloak that could provide
protection to two or three people.

I wrote a note to Colonel Prospero informing him that my duties for the
foreseeable future would be even more detached from the regiment than they
normally were. I spent the rest of the evening packing and talking with
Serena. She had much less knowledge of the Patternfall War than I would have
thought. Having heard the history from my relatives, I had never considered
the possibility that the facts were not well known. She had no idea what
Pearl was or how it came to be. I spent a couple of hours telling her about
the war and the parts played by various members of the royal family while I
was imprisoned.

We went to bed late, quite tired, and just slept. The next day, we woke up
early, got dressed, and went over to Cassandra's room. I carried the
saddlebags I had packed the night before. Cassandra was up and Merlin was
there already. She had arranged for a saddlebags to be packed for each of
us. We decided to take them all.

After a full breakfast, we headed down to the stables with our equipment. I
saddled Bucephalus while Merlin picked out an experienced horse (apparently
one of Eric's) and Serena got a horse from her family's stock. Cassandra rode
Darhyse.

We headed out into Arden. We met a patrol shortly after entering the
forest. They asked us our business, warned us about manticores, and wished us
a pleasant journey.  After about an hour of easy riding, we heard horns being
blown in the distance. Julian was hunting today. Soon they became louder and
it became clear that the hunt was headed in our direction. Merlin, who was
leading the group, changed our course to avoid them. Soon we heard the baying
of hounds and it became apparent that at least some of Julian's dogs had
picked up our scent. I noticed that Darhyse seemed to be getting larger,
probably as part of her shapeshifting abilities. In a few moments one
hellhound bounded into the clearing we were crossing. I maneuvered so that
Bucephalus and I were between the dog and Serena. It bounded past us,
straight toward Darhyse, who had by then grown to almost twice her normally
large size. They snapped at each other once or twice, then Darhyse leapt
forward and snatched the hound up in her mouth, biting it across the
torso. The hound screamed as Darhyse pulled it off its feet and held it
almost gently. It struggled for a few moments, then gave up.

Other hounds circled, baying and snarling. I drew Galantine and guarded
Serena, but none came close. Darhyse held the now-terrified hound in her huge
jaws and lashed out with her claws at any others that darted near. Soon
Julian rode Morgenstern into the clearing, calling his hounds back. He rode
up to Cassandra and Darhyse.

"Well," he said, looking us over. "It seems we have caught some rabbits who
turned out to have fangs." He gave Cassandra a look of mock contrition. "May
I have my hound back, please?"

Darhyse, giving Morgenstern a meaningful look, put the animal down across the
horn of his saddle. It had a neat pattern of teeth marks across its body,
bleeding only slightly. Darhyse looked meaningfully at Morgenstern and licked
his face before backing away slightly. Morgenstern seemed distraught.

Julian traded his usual sharp witticisms with us for a moment before the rest
of his party arrived. It contained Clarissa and a coterie of her vapid
applicants trying uncomfortably to stay upon their horses. She rode up and
gave greeting to us all, seemingly amused at Julian's catch.  "Poor puppies,"
she said, gesturing to the hellhounds. "Too stupid not to bite things bigger
than them."

She asked our destination and we explained. Smiling as if to say she had
known it all along (and I am sure she had), she reached into her saddlebags
and retrieved a small package. Handing it to Cassandra, she asked that she
give it to Corwin. Cassandra agreed to do so.

Then Clarissa looked at Serena. "What a lovely lady you have," she said to
me.

"I think so, too." I replied, nervous at the thought that Clarissa had taken
notice of Serena.

"Didn't you want to be queen of Amber?" she asked Serena.

"No," she said. "That would be either above or below my station. Above for
you, below for some others." She looked pointedly at the vapids.

While they were talking, I noticed that Merlin had quietly killed three
hellhounds with his blade. Another came sniffing too close to Darhyse and she
caught it up in her mouth, this time holding its entire head within her
jaws. It struggled for a few moments and began to cry mournfully. Julian
asked for that one back also, and at a word from Cassandra Darhyse laid it,
whimpering, across Morgenstern's back.

At that we bid them goodbye and they wished us a good journey. My family is
quite astounding sometimes in their shameless perversion of manners.

Our journey was basically uneventful. Merlin led the whole way, since he had
been there before and could apparently travel in Shadow much more quickly
than Darhyse.  We stopped several times to eat and stretch our legs (Merlin
exhibiting the typical endurance and appetite of and Amberite). On one stop
we went for a swim (except Serena, who wanted to take a nap, and Darhyse, who
hated to get wet). When we took off our clothes, it became apparent that
Cassandra was considerably more, well, developed than the 11- or 12-year
old we had thought her to be. She looked more like 18 or so, but short enough
to pass for 12 in the loose clothing she had worn in Amber. When I asked her
about it afterward, she confessed that she had allowed everyone to think she
was a child because she thought she might be safer that way. I allowed that
it may have been a prudent decision.

Finally, Merlin said we had gone as far as he could take us. Cassandra asked
Darhyse to lead us to where we can contact her father. Darhyse walked four
paces further, then sat down.

"I think this is it," said Cassandra. She pulled out her deck of Trump and
selected Corwin's. She made contact, spoke with him for a moment, then ended
the conversation.  Then she got out Oberon's Trump. She achieved contact,
apparently found him busy, and waited a few moments. When she pulled him
through he was clutching a huge leg of lamb, of which he promptly took a
bite. He greeted us while Cassandra again Trumped her father. She spoke with
him, then passed Oberon through. A few minutes later, the man I had last seen
a captive of Eric's troops appeared.  He looked tired. Haggard even. Weakly,
he hugged Cassandra, said hello to Merlin, and was introduced to Serena and
me. He was dressed in his usual black and silver.

I shook his hand and said, "I have heard that you've found Caine."

"Actually, he found my Pattern."

"How so?" I asked.

"He decided that what he seeks is on the other side of my Pattern. So with
his usual arrogance he decided to walk it. He got almost halfway along before
he realized he couldn't make it and got scared, I think, for the first time
in his life. He tried to turn around and get off."

"And he's still alive after that?" I asked.

"I've been feeding him strength to keep him alive. He has been stuck there,
in a state of paralysis, since then. Now Oberon is dealing with it. By the
way, do you have anything to eat? It's been quite exhausting."

"Of course," I said. We all dug into our supplies and gave him various things
to eat and drink. He ate like he had not eaten in days. Perhaps he hadn't.

"Can't you Trump him off?" I asked.

"No," he said. "My Pattern seems to want to keep him."

He finished his meal. "I should warn you that you will not find it pleasant
on the other side of the barrier. Those who have walked Amber's Pattern lose
all of their powers within my realm. It is quite disconcerting."

He looked at Merlin. "It will affect you, too, although you can still walk it
if you want."

"I'm not sure what that will do, Perhaps some other time."

"I have but recently walked the Pattern," I said. "I am sure that it won't
bother me to be without it for awhile."

"There's more to it than that," Corwin said. "There is a feeling of mental
static that comes over you. It induces headaches and a certain amount of
confusion."

He turned to Serena. "You, of course, will have no difficulty, my Lady." She
smiled.

"When we go, each of you must be touching me or be touching someone who is
touching me. It has something to do with conductance."

We created a chain, flesh to flesh, including the horses, and walked
forward. There was a feeling of disorientation, a bit like losing one's
balance. Or like being wrapped in cotton. It didn't go away. Shadows shifted
rapidly, and soon we were standing on a barren plane. Ahead of us was a large
tree, almost leafless.  Before it lay a Pattern. It looked familiar and alien
at the same time; it was hard to look at. Oberon stood at the tree, and
someone, presumably Caine, stood wreathed in flame about halfway along the
Pattern.

Corwin spoke to Cassandra for a moment and she walked over to a spot that
seemed no different than any other nearby spot. She knocked, as if at a door,
and a door opened. It hung in midair, a smallish fellow peered out. Cassandra
seemed to be placing an order. Chairs and a table appeared. Apparently
self-animated, they walked by themselves over to us. I pointed to a spot, and
a chair walked over and stopped there.  Serena followed suit, and got another
chair. A third chair stopped before Bucephalus and rocked back and forth,
apparently waiting for a command. The table arranged itself before us,
covered in a variety of foods. Cassandra sat down with us while Corwin and
Merlin went over to talk with Oberon.

The food was all right but the wine was terrible. Serena pulled out her magic
wineskin and we shared its contents with Cassandra. Serena, apparently
concerned that she was in the presence of royalty in travel clothes, pulled a
more formal ensemble from her bags. She caused her pendant to produce a black
cloak and changed underneath it. I told her it was unnecessary, since she
looked wonderful in anything, and she hushed me.

I walked over to where Oberon, Merlin, and Corwin were talking. They were
using some sort of mathematical language that I could not decipher. After a
moment I realized that the tree was also participating in the discussion. I
listened for a few minutes, then headed back to the ladies.  They had
decided to go explore. There didn't seem to be much to see, but I agreed to
take a walk with them. We picked a direction at random and walked. There
seemed to be nothing but sand for miles. We walked in a wide loop around the
Pattern. As we got further from the Pattern, the fuzzy feeling induced by
this place got stronger.

Eventually, we heard a "halloo!" from out in the dunes. It was an unkempt
fellow named Seth who was, apparently bringing supplies to Corwin by pulling
a sleigh across the sand. Cassandra knew him and they chatted about home. He
mentioned something about "the war" before continuing on toward Corwin. I
asked Cassandra about it, but she wouldn't talk. We decided that there
probably wasn't anything interesting out here and went back to the Pattern.
Cassandra remembered the package Clarissa had given her and presented to
Corwin.  He opened it, looked at the card it contained, and cursed. He went
off for a moment and came back with Darkstar, Fiona's demonic friend. They
seemed to know each other.  Darkstar also seemed to know Merlin, at least by
reputation. He greeted Merlin with a string of titles that I would not
attempt to reproduce even were I able to remember them. Merlin returned the
compliment with another endless string of titles. Having demonstrated that
they were both vastly important back in Chaos, they joined the others, who
had resumed their technical discussion of Pattern mechanics.

I laid out a folded blanket under my head and dozed while Serena chatted with
Cassandra and Seth. After perhaps an hour, they achieved some sort of
solution. Caine disappeared. Everyone shook hands all around and partook of
the banquet arranged on the table. Oberon drank what must have been several
gallons in one toss of Serena's magic wineskin.

"Perhaps I missed something," I said. "Where exactly is Caine?"

"Recovering," said Oberon, without further explanation.

"Who would like to come to Pearl?" said Corwin, brandishing a Trump depicting
a castle.

All of us agreed except Oberon, who said he had to look after Caine. Soon we
had all Trumped through. The castle at Pearl was less a fortification than a
palace styled like a castle. It looked comfortable and pretty, if not
protective. We stood about halfway up a gentle slope leading to it. Within
moments, a lovely young lady appeared and hugged Cassandra, who introduced
her as Alyss. She was apparently the castle chatelaine. She asked about our
preferred accommodations and room setup.

While we were discussing arrangements, we spotted a group (pride?) of about
thirty Sha'um headed our way. They were all smaller than Darhyse, but still
quite large. They were of many different colors--browns, reds, oranges, and
greens. Some were multicolored. Cassandra didn't seem worried, but I stood
before Serena anyway. We became engulfed in a wave of huge and affectionate
creatures. They nudged and rubbed us, sniffed and nuzzled. They seemed
particularly happy to see Cassandra. One, however, seemed fascinated with
Serena. It stared at her and she stared back, looking shocked. I tapped her
shoulder and got no response.

"Serena?" Nothing.

I caught Cassandra's attention. "What's happening to Serena?" I asked.

Cassandra looked at the pair. "It looks like that one has imprinted on her,"
she said.

"What does that mean?"

"Sometimes a Sha'um selects a particular human to be her partner. They
establish a telepathic bond, just as Darhyse has with me."

"Can it harm her?"

"Of course not. But they will both be in a state of shock for awhile until
the imprinting sets."

"How long will that take?"

"Anywhere from a couple of hours to a couple of days."

"Maybe we'd better get them to a private room, then."

Alyss led us to a comfortable suite which included a bedroom, a sitting room,
and a bathroom. She explained to me how to use the various bathroom fixtures,
which were much more elegant and comfortable than those in Castle
Amber. Serena and her new friend sat and stared into her eyes. Periodically
she would speak with it out loud, oblivious to the telepathic nature of their
communication.

I took a long, comfortable bath. I admit that I was a bit hurt by this turn
of events; would this creature displace me in Serena's affections? I sat in
the tub and moped for some time. Shortly before turning into a wrinkled prune
I got out, dried myself, and went out to check on the besotted pair. Serena
was more responsive by then. She spoke with me excitedly about the
experience, and I had to explain to her that no, I could not hear what the
Sha'um was saying to her. She had never experienced telepathic commu-
nication before. It was all quite enthralling for her, and her enthusiasm was
infectious.  I asked her what the Sha'um's name was, and Serena told me that
she wanted Serena to name her. She had not yet decided. Later, we took a nap
on the bed.  We were awakened perhaps an hour later by a knock at the
door. It was Cassandra with a handsome, one-legged fellow named
Benjamin. Apparently, they were lovers.  Cassandra said that dinner would be
in about an hour and that, via the servants, we should let the chef know what
we would like. Serena and I decided to leave it up to him. They left to go
harass Merlin while Serena and I freshened up.

At dinner, we were seated at high table with Cassandra (her friend was not
there), some important officials, and Merlin. Corwin was not there. The food
was strange but quite good. I could not understand what was said by most of
the people around me, as Thari was not commonly spoken in Pearl. Alyss,
Cassandra, and a few servants knew the tongue. As we chatted Cassandra called
over a thin, hawk-like fellow with grey hair named Deth. He seemed some kind
of shadow sorcerer who also claimed to be a musician.  "May I hear your
work sometime?" I asked.

"I would like that," he said, "but music is forbidden in this place."

"That seems strange to me," I said, "as Corwin is known as a great musician
and composer in Amber."

"Perhaps that is why he forbids music here," Cassandra said.

Deth excused himself to go sit at his own table. Later I noticed that the
voices around me, which I had been experiencing as an incomprehensible
babble, had begun to sound like Thari. I could understand them. Serena had
the same experience. I asked Cassandra whether people had changed tongues. At
first, she seemed puzzled, as everyone was clearly speaking the language
called Common. Then she understood. Deth, she said, had cast a spell upon us
permitting us to understand any language we heard. It was permanent. I raised
my glass to him, and he smiled.

With my new understanding I heard much talk of the current war. I asked
Cassandra about it. She confirmed that Pearl was at war with forces from
local Shadow, but would give few details. Benjamin, she said, had lost his
leg in battle, protecting her.  Later, she got a message brought to her by a
tired-looking man named Ingold. She read it and looked disturbed.

"It's from my father," she said to Merlin, Serena, and me. "He wants me to go
to the front. I am afraid that I will have to leave you tomorrow."

"Perhaps we could accompany you," I said. "You might find it helpful to have
some extra protection."

"Yes," agreed Merlin. "I haven't been in a good war for some time."

"This is not your fight," Cassandra said. "I have no right to involve you in
it."

"You are not," I said. "We are involving ourselves."

"What about you, Serena?" she asked.

Before Serena could assure everyone that I would protect her, I broke
in. "You could stay here and get to know your new friend." I indicated the
Sha'um sitting at her side.  "It would only be a couple of days, I'm sure."

"I suppose that might be all right," she said.

"Then it's agreed. We shall leave in the morning," I said. I was most
relieved that I would not have to try to protect Serena in a war zone.

Serena and I, fatigued from our journey, retired early. I caught up on this
journal and shall now go to bed.

 * * *

The next morning, early, Ingold came to me with a message from
Cassandra. There was an emergency, he said, and she had found it necessary to
go to her father a few hours before. Ingold would escort Merlin and me to the
army. I got up, said goodbye to Serena, and got dressed. I got Bucephalus and
met Merlin and Ingold in the castle courtyard. Ingold cast some sort of
spell, and we were transported to a military encampment of good size and
professional arrangement. Ingold led us to a tent where we met with
Cassandra.

"What's up?" Merlin asked.

"My father is ill. I believe he was poisoned," she said.

"How did it happen?" I asked.

"We had just concluded a peace treaty with the enemy. They had
surrendered. Then my father fell ill last night after drinking a cup of
wine."

"Why would he drink wine provided by his enemies?" Merlin asked.

"They drank the same wine first. It is even possible that a normal component
of their wine, which they are used to, caused him to fall ill. I was there
just after he was stricken and overheard their leaders speaking in their own
tongue, which I understand.  They said the treaty was just a ruse and they
would attack when we let our guard down."

"That was stupid of them," I said.

"Yes, very stupid. Anyway, I believe they tried to poison me also, but I had
taken a counteragent. I left with my father. Now I am not sure what to
do. Will you join my Council of War?"

"Sure," Merlin said.

"Certainly," I said. "With your father ill, I take it that you are the
commander?"

"Yes," she said. "I have been his second in command throughout this war."

"If they have just surrendered," I asked, "then they must be weak. How do
their forces compare with ours?"

"Their military has always been very weak. Their troops are a joke; our men
find it boring to fight them and we take almost no casualties in battle. They
have powerful mages, however, and they have caused considerable difficulties
with magical attacks.  Recently, their chief sorcerer was slain by Ingold,
our own chief sorcerer. Soon thereafter, they offered to surrender."

"What would be the consequences of simply abrogating the treaty on the
grounds of what you overheard?" I asked "Would you be believed?"

"Our side would certainly believe me, but I am concerned about their side. I
want us to be perceived not only as the victors, but as those in the
right. Part of what we are trying to do is teach them that we are not their
enemies. One of the terms of the treaty was that we would be in charge of
educating their children. Their women have no rights. They are kept in
chains. If the enemy believes that we are traitors, they won't listen to us
and we won't be able to change their ways."

"Perhaps I am overly pessimistic," I said, "but since history is written by
the victors, then after we win, we will be the ones who write the
history. When we do, we will tell the truth about what happened. That may be
sufficient justification."

"All right," she said after a moment's thought, "then we will attack."

I asked about the military situation. The war, she said, had been going on
for a year.  While their ground forces have been ineffectual, their magical
attacks have been powerful. Corwin has been the prime target. In one
attack, they had sent an assassin for him in Cassandra's guise. Since Ingold
turned their greatest mage into a stone statue, Cassandra was unsure of their
capabilities. They might have other powerful mages.  There were spies in the
enemy camp who were now trying to gather that information.

While we were speaking, Madir, a sorceress I had met at dinner the previous
night, came in with one of our spies, a birdlike fellow whose name I never
caught. Their core force was a group of religious fanatics, led by priests in
black robes. Some of them were thought to be mages. The discussion turned to
ways to catch the leaders with their guard down without having to slaughter
their army.

"We could poison their food," said Madir. "We have `friends' who could
accomplish that easily."

"That would be fitting, considering what they did to my father," Merlin said.

"I don't want to kill them all," Cassandra said, "only defeat them."

"I know an herb that wouldn't kill them," Madir said, "but it would give them
all a terrible case of diarrhea."

We all laughed at the idea.

"We would need quite a lot of it, though," Madir said.

"Give me a sample and I'll get you all you need," Merlin said. Suddenly we
realized that this might be a workable plan.

Madir produced a small amount from his pouch and described the plant that
produced it. Merlin reached out and pulled some out of midair. Madir cast a
spell, and the raw herb became a white powder. Cassandra produced a bucket to
capture it in and rolls of paper with which to package it. Soon we had a
production line running, and I spent the next couple of hours rolling the
powder into paper packages.

While we were working, a small furry creature arrived. His name was Hilo. He
chatted with Cassandra in a strange singsong language. She explained about
the white powder and how it should be snuck into every cooking pot in the
enemy camp. Soon more of the creatures showed up. They sat under tables and
played incessantly at some kind of gambling game with rocks. When we were
done, they lined up, hundreds of them, and took the packets we had
created. Then they scampered off. By then it was late afternoon. We decided
to attack at dawn.

I spent the remainder of the day chatting with Cassandra and her
soldiers. They seemed like good chaps, although I'm not sure they were quite
so competent as they seemed to think they were. As far as I could tell, they
had never encountered truly challenging opponents. I didn't tell them that,
however.

I slept very well that night, although I missed Serena. It had been a long
time since I'd spent the night in a large military camp on campaign. It
seemed like home.

I woke up very early and made my way to the latrine. On the way back I
discovered that the camp had excellent bathing facilities. In some ways this
was more like a vacation than a war. Not that I'm complaining, mind
you. Actual wars are quite uncomfortable.  As I came back to my tent, the
birdlike spy whose name I never did learn spotted me and came over.

"They all have the runs," he squawked. "The whole army!"

"Good work!" I told him.

"If you would tell Cassandra," he said, "I have other tasks to do." When I
agreed, he walked off.

I dressed quickly, made my way to Cassandra's tent, and told her the news
 "Well," she asked, "shall we go visiting?"  "I think that's a splendid
idea."

A very large fellow--almost Gerard's size--came up to the tent. He complained
to Cassandra that no one would bet on the upcoming contest since the odds
were too greatly in our favor. Cassandra introduced him as her brother,
Commander Berkolder.  In Amber, the rank of Commander is used only in the
navy, but they appear to do things differently here.  "Actually, he's my
foster brother, the son of the general you met at dinner the night before
last."

"Corwin took me as something as a pet when I was younger," Berkolder
explained. He looked to the East, where the sun was peeking over the
horizon. "I should go form the troops." We had decided on a company of
cavalry with magical support for the initial attack, with a larger force held
in reserve to commit when we needed them.

When told that they would be in reserve, the Sha'um began to yowl. Cassandra
soon relented and told them they could be in on the attack. This confirmed my
opinion that these were undisciplined amateurs who thought themselves elite
because they had incompetent enemies. The very idea of changing a battle plan
because a bunch of cats want to be in on the fun is absurd. Again, however, I
held my tongue.

Merlin came in, not looking good.  "Good morning, Merlin," I said,
cheerfully.  "It comes so early around here."

 "Not a morning person, Merlin?" I asked.

"Not at all."  "Who's idea was it to do this at dawn?" asked Cassandra.

"You don't have to go if you don't want to," I said.

"Actually," Merlin said, "I was up until a couple of hours ago talking to
Madir.  Fascinating person. After discussing the enemy with, her, I believe I
can handle anything they throw at us. Here, take these." He handed out
fist-sized steel balls to each of us.

"If you need to," he said "throw these at the enemy. They'll explode."

Berkolder and many of his men bore drinking mugs labeled `W.O.C.' When asked,
he told me that this stood for `Weapon of Choice.' Many of the men were
apparently going to wield these in the attack. At that point I began to think
that the enemy might have a chance against us after all, as we seemed to be
doing our best to achieve defeat.

The company of horse and the company of Sha'um moved out in fairly good
order. I rode Bucephalus. We went right past the enemy sentries, who lay
stricken on the ground. Then we rode right through the enemy camp. Thousands
lay covered in filth.  Many more lined ditches and latrines, emptying their
bowels. The stench was horrible.  For the most part they ignored us.  We rode
virtually unopposed to their command center, which was a large wooden
building. There were some guards around the building; these were easily taken
down by the Sha'um. I rode through them up to the entrance, which had two
guards. I cut them down easily and rode Bucephalus right through the doorway
and into the building. As I went in I saw the Sha'um jumping on the roof and
clawing their way through the walls.

Inside were more defenders. I killed several of them before I saw Cassandra
and others come in. We killed them all. Cassandra and I noticed that there
was a map table with scrolls on it that were disappearing, one by one. We
tried to grab them or skewer them with our weapons, but they disappeared
anyway.

I felt a tapping at the corner of my mind. I answered the Trump call; it was
Merlin.  "Their mages have escaped to another place," he said. "but I think I
can trace them."

"Then please do so," I told him.

"Pull Madir and me through."

I complied. Merlin spent a few minutes inscribing magical circles of some
kind on the floor. Then he uttered a Word, and a gate appeared before him.
"Hurry," he said. "Go through before they can escape again!"

Bucephalus and I jumped through the gate. We found ourselves in a large
cavern lit by torches. There were perhaps fifty men in the cave, most in
black robes, some in the uniforms of enemy officers. They looked at me in
shock and began to gather weapons.

Knowing better than to waste surprise, I shouted "tally ho!" and charged into
their midst. I was followed moments later by Cassandra and the rest of our
force. A group of them in the center began to teleport out, one by one, so we
headed in their direction.  Those around them had cast some kind of magical
protection spell; cutting them was like chopping cold molasses. I noticed
that the other soldiers were unable to affect them at all, but with Galantine
they were not hard to take down. Cassandra was also able to affect them with
her sword.  As we came toward them, they began to throw spells. They popped
in multicolored explosions around us. I thought we might be in trouble, but
Merlin and Madir threw counterspells that stopped them. More of them began to
appear, using the gate Merlin had established. I later found out that Merlin
had cast a spell that redirected their teleportation back to this
place. Clever.

Within about ten minutes, it was over. Most of them were dead. A few of their
more powerful mages had escaped Merlin's redirection using more sophisticated
teleportation spells, but we had caught the majority of their high
command. We also had a large stack of documents: battle plans, codes,
logistical records, personnel records, and so on.  These we sent back through
the gate for analysis.

I went over to where Merlin was resting. "Can't you follow them again?" I
asked.

"No. I was too busy protecting you from their spells and I was not able to
trace their teleports."

"I see. Then can you determine their location from here without tracing the
spells?"

"Give me a minute. I'll talk it over with Madir and see what I can come up
with."

Most of our troops returned through the gate, then Merlin let it drop to
conserve his energy. He and Madir consulted for awhile, then Merlin sat down
and concentrated.

"They are putting up disruptive energies that Merlin is trying to break
through," Madir said. "I'm lending him strength."

The itchy, cottony feeling of Corwin's worlds became stronger, as if in
reaction to Merlin's outpouring of power. Then Merlin opened his eyes in
shock, and slowly keeled over. I ran over and checked his vital signs. He was
alive, but very unconscious.  His pulse and breathing were strong and slow.

Madir looked shaky. "Are you all right?" Cassandra asked.

Madir nodded and took out a cheroot. "Yeah. Got a light?"

"No, I don't."  "That's OK," she said, and a flame sprang from her finger.
"What happened?"

"I'm just the backup. I'm not sure what happened."

"We should get him out of here," Cassandra said.

"How?" I asked. "My Pattern doesn't work here and you don't have Pattern
yet."

"Madir, can you get us back?" Cassandra asked.

"No, I don't think so. This place is blocked off somehow."

We tried a couple of Trump cards, but they didn't seem to work in this place.

"Darhyse can take us through Shadow," Cassandra said. She pulled out her
sword and addressed it. "Darhyse, it's time to turn into a cat now."

Nothing happened. Cassandra started to curse. "I'm gonna beat her silly
afterwards."

"The sword is one of Darhyse's shapes?" I asked.

"Yes, but either she's not listening or her shapeshift doesn't work here."

I looked closely at the sword. It was of black metal. The blade had a tracery
of Pattern; presumably Corwin's, as it was not that of Amber.

Cassandra held up the blade and asked it to lead us. Nothing happened. We all
looked at each other.

"Malachai," Cassandra said, "you have more experience with this. How does one
travel through Shadow without a Shadow path?"

"Unless one has Pattern or Trump or some other ability, which I don't have in
this place and neither do any of you, then one does not."

"Then shall we pick a direction and at least get out of this cavern?"  "I
have no better solution," I said.

We took a couple of torches and got Merlin up on Bucephalus. Picking one of
the cav- ern's exits at random, we made our way to it. Cassandra, in the
lead, bumped into an invisible barrier at the exit. I felt the barrier; it
was smooth and glassy. I walked around the cavern and checked the other
exits. They were all barred in the same manner. This was not looking good.

Cassandra got out Darhyse and hit the barrier with her. No effect. I tried
the same with Galantine. It sunk in slightly and stuck, like striking
hardened molasses. I pulled it free, tried again with more force, and did no
better. I pushed Galantine in point first and discovered that the barrier was
only about two inches thick. Although I could push the sword through and then
move the blade slowly around, the barrier filled in rather than cutting. No
amount of moving the blade around could open a hole.  Cassandra tried the
same thing with Darhyse, but then had trouble pulling her back out. "There is
some kind of force pulling at the sword."

By that time Darhyse was imbedded up to the hilt. After some discussion we
decided to let Darhyse go through, in the hope that she could shapeshift
beyond the barrier. I had to push her the final distance with the point of my
sword, but she finally popped through. As we had hoped, she changed into her
Sha'um form. Darhyse looked at us and seemed to be making noise, but the
barrier blocked us from hearing. She tried to dig through the barrier,
managing to get the tips of her claws through but no more.  Cassandra touched
her claw and spoke with her silently. We agreed that Darhyse would explore
the other end of the corridor.

While she was away I felt around the cavern. As I feared, we seemed to have
no source of fresh air. It was a large cave and I thought we would have
enough for at least one or two days, but things seemed bleak. Cassandra
looked like a scared little girl, and I gave her a hug.

A few minutes later Darhyse came back, shaking her head. We took this to mean
that she had encountered a dead end. Then Darhyse tried something that should
have been obvious at the beginning. She began to dig at the rock beside the
corridor. Within a few minutes she had pushed a claw through to us.

"Well, that's a lesson for us," Cassandra said.

I agreed. Within a few minutes more of digging, we had enlarged the hole
enough for Darhyse to climb through.

"Never bring me anyplace where I can't change shape," she said. Cassandra
hugged her.

"You can talk," I said stupidly.

"Of course I can talk," she replied.

A few minutes later we began digging around the next barrier to our left. We
got through it and found that it, too, led to a dead end. Upon opening the
third exit, we felt a faint breeze. Darhyse pushed through and went exploring
while we used Galantine to enlarge the hole enough for Bucephalus to get
through. Darhyse came back with a flower in her mouth and helped us finish.
We emerged on a grassy hillside. The country looked rough and, so far as we
could tell, uninhabited.

"Darhyse, can you find the camp from here?" asked Cassandra.

"If I knew where it was," she said.

"Can you find my father?"

"Probably. But I want some food first."

We decided to camp out for the night and rest before trying to get
back. Darhyse came back with a sort of woolly antelope in her teeth,
apparently having eaten another already. It cooked up nicely. Madir,
recovering from her stupor, used its bones to create a magical palisade. I
took the first watch, catching up this journal in the fading light. I may
find it difficult to sleep with the interference from Corwin's Pattern in
this place. I keep wanting to scratch inside my head.

 * * *

The next morning we decided not to use Trump to get back unless we had
to. The only one we had that would be likely to work was Corwin's. If he was
unconscious, it would be useless. If he was awake, we would prefer to walk
home rather than bother him.

The trip back took about twelve hours. Merlin stayed unconscious throughout,
but his breathing and pulse seemed stronger than they had the day before. The
manner in which Darhyse led us through Shadow was strange. Unlike the gradual
shifts common to Pattern travel, we would travel for up to an hour through
one shadow and then make an abrupt change to a very different place. Finally,
we rode into the encampment of Corwin's army.

As we rode in, we saw Commander Berkolder. He told us we had been gone three
days.  Corwin was apparently awake, recovered, and very angry over the loss
of his daughter.  He had been planning an attack. We looked at each other and
wished we had tried his Trump. Oh well.

Is Ingold available?" Cassandra asked.

"Why?"

"Because Merlin was injured while conducting a magical probe and we think he
may be able to help."

"I see." He turned to a passing soldier. "You," he said. "Get me a
chirurgeon."  Merlin was soon placed on a stretcher and brought off toward
his own tent. Ingold and the camp's chief physician would meet him there. The
rest of us decided that we had done what we could for him. Cassandra said she
was going to her tent to Trump her father.

"I'm going to my tent to get cleaned up," I said.

"If you like," Berkolder said, "I can take your horse and see that he is
properly groomed."

"I'm sure he would like that," I told him. "Thank you."

I went to my tent, washed up, and changed clothes. Then I went to Merlin's
tent.  There I found Madir and Ingold sitting and chatting.  "How is he?" I
asked.

"Well, he tried to follow a bunch of old trails and hit some kind of trigger,
which not only drained him but used his power to set up a magical
barrier. He'll be all right."

 "How long until he's awake?"

"He's just sleeping now. He should be awake in twenty or thirty minutes."

Cassandra and Corwin showed up soon afterward and got the same report on
Merlin's status. We discussed the further prosecution of the war against the
remaining enemy leaders.

"Actually," Corwin said," I've decided to simply put a price on their
heads. I think it will be more demeaning to have us ignore them. And with
that nasty business settled I think we should all go someplace more
civilized. I need a vacation."

"Malachai?" asked Cassandra.

"Lead on," I said.

"Not quite yet," he said, "but soon."

We chatted for awhile longer before Corwin decided that Merlin had been
asleep long enough. He got up, went into the tent, and poked him in the
ribs. Merlin swatted his hand away.

"Don't do that!" he said.

"How are you feeling?" Corwin asked.

"Not good, but I'll live." Merlin sat up. "That was the worst blunder I've
ever made."

"Good," Corwin said. "I hope you've learned a lesson."

Merlin grunted. He peered around at all of us looking expectantly at
him. "What's up?"

"We're going someplace to relax," Corwin said.

"I'm hip," Merlin said.

I sent an orderly to fetch Bucephalus, who returned looking happy and very
nicely groomed.

Corwin produced a Trump depicting the courtyard of his castle. I noticed that
the back of the Trump bore an abstract smiling face in three
dimensions. Curious. He made contact and we all went through. Upon our
arrival, runners sped off to announce our arrival. Alyss showed up a few
minutes later, followed closely by Serena with her Sha'um.

We hugged and I told her briefly about my recent misadventures.

"How long have we been away?" I asked her.

"A week."

"And how have you been?" I asked.

"Actually I've been rather bored." She showed me some needlework she had been
doing, depicting her, myself, Bucephalus, and her Sha'um.

"Is your cat all right?"

"She's wonderful." The Sha'um rubbed against her and purred loudly. A misty
expression came over her face and I felt a twinge of jealousy.

"Have you come up with a name for her yet?"

"Yes. Dapple." Dapple butted my hip gently and I scratched behind her ears.

Corwin broke away from the report on kingdom affairs Alyss was trying to give
him and came over. "So, how have you been coping with the interference
effects from my Pattern?" he asked me.

I thought of the cottony feeling in my head. "It's been bad, off and on," I
told him.

"Well, we can do something about that." He took out another Trump and powered
it up. "Let's get out of here."

We stepped through to the field where we had entered Corwin's
realm. Instantly, the awful feeling of having a head full of molasses
stopped.

Corwin gestured, and a table laden with food and drink appeared. We noticed a
pavilion standing at the other end of the field. It's banner bore the Unicorn
of Amber.  Oberon came from the pavilion and greeted us all. Hungry, we sat
down to eat.

Oberon addressed Corwin: "So, now that you have accomplished whatever it was
you accomplished, and you can see that my intentions were not to invade your
kingdom, I was hoping that you could look after the rest of the motley crew I
sent off."  "I'd love to," Corwin said. "I had lots of fun raising my
daughter and I think it would be entertaining to meet some of my other nieces
and nephews."

"They are not all so well-behaved," Cassandra said.

Corwin put a hand on my shoulder. "This one seems all right," he said.

"Not all of them are like him," she said.

"Then perhaps I can whip them into shape," he told her. An image came to mind
of Corwin giving K'rin a well-deserved spanking. I chuckled.

"I believe Caine would also like to go" Oberon said, "although I'm not sure
he's up to it."

"All right," Corwin said. "Where have these miscreants gone to?"

"They have traveled beyond Shadow."

"Beyond Shadow?" Corwin said. "I've never heard of such a place."

"They have gone past the Dueling Grounds?" asked Merlin.

"Yes," said Oberon. "Into the Sea of Chance itself."

"I would like to go," Serena told me.

"It sounds very dangerous," I began.

"You will protect me," she said. "You're my knight in shining armor."

"Dapple can protect her also," Cassandra said.

Serena picked that moment to be very annoying. "So, Your Majesty," she said,
"how does one arrange to marry one of your grandsons?"

I kicked her under the table.

"Bucephalus thinks it's a good idea," she said. "Dapple told me so."

"We'll talk about this later," I whispered emphatically.

Oberon, fortunately, chose not to acknowledge her question. "So Cassandra,"
he said, "do you have any other siblings?"

"Malachai may possibly be my brother. I don't know of any others besides
Merlin."

Corwin looked startled and I explained what I know of my origins. He admitted
that it was possible. He and Oberon began a technical discussion of ways to
determine my parentage. Much of the talk was in the mathematical language
they had used when figuring out how to rescue Caine. Finally, they decided
that there are two ways to tell: I could walk Corwin's Pattern, and if I
survive then I am his son. Oh, joy. The other way is to walk the Amber
Pattern at the same time as Cassandra or Merlin. If we establish a close
telepathic link while on the Pattern, then that would indicate that we are
siblings.  "I don't think I'll try either of those experiments quite yet," I
said.

"When can I walk the Pattern?" Cassandra asked Corwin.

"When you're ready, which won't be for some years," he told her. "You must be
very careful."

"Which of my sons was the youngest to walk the Pattern, against my
instructions?"  Oberon asked him.

"I was," he admitted, "but I was twenty-five. She isn't." He looked at
Cassandra threateningly.

Oberon took out a package and held it out to Cassandra. "This is for
Mikail. Would you deliver it to him for me?"

Cassandra took the package. "Of course." She looked at it curiously, but did
not ask.

"Thank you. It's two Trump decks. He asked for them and I haven't been able
to get them for him before now."

Oberon then excused himself and went into his tent. He returned a few minutes
later.  "Caine is not feeling up to a journey just yet. He gave me this
message for his daughter K'rin. Will anyone deliver it?"

I volunteered, and he gave it to me. I tucked it into my pouch for
safekeeping.

"All right," said Corwin. "If everyone has had quite enough to eat, I think
we should get going." He turned to Oberon. "Ur...how do we get there?"

"I have a friend who can get you there. Give me a moment and I will open a
gateway to him."

While Oberon worked on casting his spell, Corwin and Merlin selected two
horses from several he had pastured by his tent. Oberon nodded permission as
he finished his incantation. A glowing gate appeared before us. We said
goodbye, then stepped through it.

We found ourselves in a confusing polychromatic place. Before us was a very
tall person with strange features and a bluish cast to his skin. His hair
was perfect.

"I am Shiryu. Oberon tells me you wish to reach Mikail's party in the Sea of
Chance. I will try to get you there."

He, in turn, spent some time establishing a gate. In a few minutes it was
complete and he said that we could continue our journey. We thanked him and
did so.

This time, we entered a large space that looked like a control room. The
walls were decorated in contrasting sections of many different styles. There
was a view screen projecting strange patterns that were somehow difficult to
look at. At the center, seemingly locked into some sort of control chair, was
Mikail. The others in the room were K'rin, Rivka, Paolo, Valeria, and Zack.

We exchanged greetings, and Cassandra introduced Corwin to his brother
Mikail.  Mikail said hello and introduced Dalkontyr, the vessel in which we
traveled. A voice appeared from midair and said hello. We greeted it back.

I went over to K'rin. "I have a message for you. It's from your father."

"You've seen him? Is he all right? Where is he?"

"Yes," I said. "He has been injured, but he's recovering and will be
fine. When I last saw him he was with Oberon near Pearl." I handed her the
note.

"Thanks," she said. She reached into her pouch and retrieved a Trump of her
father.

"That won't work here," Mikail said.

K'rin ignored him and tried it anyway. She met with no success.

"If you'll excuse me, I'd like to go read this in private." She left,
returning a few minutes with a somber look.

On the view screen, I noticed various strange pieces of debris float by--a
shoe, a thighbone, a winged snake with chrome scales. "We may soon arrive
at a relatively solid place where we might get out," Mikail said.

Eventually, we were given quarters. After spending some time privately with
Serena, discussing the issue of public announcements of our private affairs,
I caught up on this journal. I have completed this volume and will be
starting another. I'm sure it will be as interesting as this one.


# Malachai's Journal vol. 2 
Serena and I spent a couple of hours in our
stateroom. As we were relaxing afterward, she nibbled on my ear. "I have a
surprise for you," she said.

"Oh?"

"You'll figure it out. It was Dapple's idea."

"Can I have a hint?"

"Let's just say you'll be able to keep up now."

"What does that mean?" I asked. She only smiled.  Women.

About that time, Dalkontyr announced that we were about to land. We got up
and went to the control room. Through the viewscreen, we saw a beach. The
sea was of some multicolored material and the "water" was the chaos stuff
we had been traveling through. Beyond the beach was a high
cliff. Apparently, we had arrived at an island in the Sea of Chance.

Mikail got Dalkontyr to analyze the environment. The air was breathable and
the gravity slightly above normal. Mikail told Dalkontyr to fly over the
cliff. When he tried, we appeared to be going nowhere. Dalkontyr said that
the cliff was receding away at the same rate that he advanced. He knew of
no way to get over the cliff.

Left with no better choice, we traveled along the beach. Soon we saw a
small village, laid out in a strange pattern with no straight edges. The
inhabitants were lizard creatures. Mikail was very surprised that there was
anything so coherent as a single race of beings here. Mikail said we should
stop here, since Dworkin may have come this way.

"What makes you think so?" I asked him.

"Dworkin was in the Sea of Chance when he created the original Pattern. If
he wanted to make another, he might come here. This island has such a high
level of order for this place that I suspect Dworkin's influence."

"That is a very logical and straightforward idea," Corwin said, "and
therefore I suspect that would not be how Dworkin would behave."

"Perhaps he came here to avoid being distracted by the forces of Chaos, who
would not want him to create another Pattern.

"I wasn't distracted when I created my Pattern."

"The forces of Chaos were themselves distracted at the time."

"True."

"Let's check it out anyway," Mikail said.

"Fine."

We landed on the beach near the village. The lizards all appeared to be
engaged in various construction tasks. Mikail asked Dalkontyr to put us
outside on the beach. Huge tentacles appeared from the walls, grabbed us
about the waist, lifted us up through hatches, and placed us gently on the
beach. This gave me the willies. Why did it have to be tentacles?

"Dalkontyr," said Mikail patiently, "I had meant for you to use the spatial
translator."

"Then be more specific," he said. "I was just trying to provide a little
variety."

By this time a few of the lizards had come over to look us over. They were
not entirely alike; they varied somewhat in coloring, features, and number
of limbs. They ignored our attempts to communicate in various
languages. Soon, they lost interest in us and went back to their tasks.

Cassandra asked Dalkontyr to bring Darhyse out. From Dalkontyr's depths
came Darhyse, wrapped in a tentacle and trying to claw at it.

"Use the spatial translator," Mikail said. Darhyse appeared in mid-air
nearby, upside down and looking very unhappy.

"Pillow," Mikail said, and one appeared below her just as she landed on her
feet. She sat down and began casually licking a paw as if nothing odd had
happened. Cassandra went over and petted her.

"The pillow is made out of rock," she said. "How very odd."

Mikail and Paolo conferred for a moment about the problem of communication,
then Paolo shapeshifted into a lizard. He went off to work on a
building. After a few minutes of carrying bricks he came back and shifted
back into his usual form.

"They're a hive mind," he told us tiredly. I imagine that it was difficult
for him to get away once he had shifted his brain to fit into group
consciousness. "They are building this because someone real told them
to. That someone had a red jewel."

"Bingo," Corwin said. "I suggest we move on, since this may be just the
first in a series."

We agreed. I asked Mikail if I could return to Dalkontyr without using a
tentacle. He arranged for us to be teleported back to the control room, and
I thanked him.

"Dalkontyr, are they changing the nature of local reality with their
construction?"  Mikail asked.

"Not in any way that I can detect," Dalkontyr said.

We continued to follow the beach. Soon we came to a very large well, which
Dalkontyr said contained water. There was a line of lizards between the
well and the town; they seemed to be passing buckets of water. As we
approached, we saw a single set of tracks heading away from the
village. They ended against the cliff face.  We landed. The footprints
appeared human. We discussed various options, then decided to have
Dalkontyr throw something at the cliff in that spot. We chose the stone
pillow Darhyse had landed on. Dalkontyr teleported it into the air nearby,
then threw it toward the cliff just in front of the tracks. It flew into
the cliff as if the cliff were not there, then came back out a few seconds
later. Dalkontyr caught it on a sail.

"Analyze the pillow," Mikail said.

"It is made of the same stone as before, but there is a colony of tiny
organisms inside.  They are consuming the stone and converting it to
feathers."

"You mean they eat stone and excrete feathers?" he asked.

"Yes."

"Interesting. Throw it in again."

The mast flexed back and snapped forward, propelling the pillow again
toward the cliff.  This time, it hit slightly to the left of the trail. It
shattered against the cliff.

"Great," said Mikail. "We're having a pillow fight with a cliff."  "The
organisms have started consuming the sand," Dalkontyr said.

"How fast?" I asked.

"This area will consumed and converted to feathers in about fourteen
hours," Dalkontyr said.

We discussed our next course of action. Mikail said that he should go and
investigate.

"No," said Corwin. "I have the most experience with this sort of thing."

"Very well," Mikail said. "Dalkontyr, transport Corwin to the tracks in
front of the cliff."

Corwin appeared in front of the cliff. He poked Grayswandir into the
cliff. It went right in. He poked it back and forth, discovering the edge
of a doorway. He could not find an upper limit.

"Dalkontyr," I said, "please put me next to Corwin."

Instantly, I was next to Corwin. Instantly, Grayswandir was at my throat. I
jumped back.

"I thought you could use some assistance," I said.

"All right," Corwin said. Let me give you a boost and you can see how high
this opening extends." He made a foothold with his crossed fingers.

I stepped into his hand and he raised me up. I waved Galantine over my
head, quickly determining that I could not reach the top. I stepped down.

"OK," he said. "Next step." He pointed Grayswandir toward me. "Would you
please hold on to the tip?"

I did so, gingerly, and he stepped in slowly, holding the hilt. It looked
like he was walking through a solid rock wall. Then he came back.

"It's completely dark," he said.

"Dalkontyr," I said, "two things. First, unless I specifically ask you to,
never transport me to within ten feet of Corwin. Second, could we have a
lamp please?"

A large metal lamp appeared, about four feet tall.  "Light it, please," I
said. A beam of light shot out from the ship, burning a hole through the
glass, lighting the lamp, and continuing on into the pile of feathers that
had started to grow near the entrance.  I picked up the lamp, pushed it
into the opening, and pushed my head in. The light had no apparent effect
-- I could see nothing but utter dark. I stepped back, looked at Corwin,
and shook my head. Through some speaker system provided by Dalkontyr,
Valeria asked what was going on. I explained.

"Here," Mikail said, "try this." A tube-shaped device with a crystal
sticking from the front appeared before me. "I'm not sure if this will
work, but it's worth a try."

I pushed the tube into the entrance, and the crystal shattered
instantly. However, the darkness seemed to retreat slightly as it did so. I
told Mikail what had happened. He discussed the matter with Dalkontyr, who
said that something in there was feeding on darkness.  After further
discussion, Merlin appeared beside us. "I'm going to try something." He
cast a spell, and there was an explosion of light. "Damn," he said. "Not
quite inside the cave."

Valeria appeared. "I'll try." She cast a spell, apparently similar to
Merlin's but with better aim. The entrance became darker than the
surrounding cliff face. It was about twenty feet wide and two hundred feet
high. Corwin looked inside.

"No apparent effect," he said.

Mikail had Dalkontyr throw light beams at the cave, in various colors. It
got darker still until the illusion of cliff face was gone and the entrance
was simply black.

Paolo appeared. He grew his finger out to a length of ten feet, presumably
as a probe, and asked Dalkontyr for some rope, which appeared in a pile
beside us. Corwin took the end and he stepped in. We heard Paolo whistling
as he continued inward.  Eventually, after about four hundred feet, he
stopped and the rope went slack. Corwin started to pull in the rope, but it
stayed slack. We looked at each other, and Paolo came running out of the
cave at full speed. He stopped and fell to his knees. He seemed exhausted
and was rather mushy, as if his shapeshifting had gotten away from him. He
had grown an extra pair of legs, presumably for speed. Paolo dug a hole in
the sand and stuck his head in.

We looked at each other. After a minute, Paolo took his head back out of
the sand. He looked like he was ready to vomit.

"Well?" asked Mikail.

"It goes back quite a ways," he said.

"And?"

"It drains one, really badly. If I didn't know better I'd think it was
created by a master of my guild to eat away at other shapeshifters."

"Well," said Valeria, "I'm not a shapeshifter. I'll go in."

"I would recommend Corwin," Mikail said. "Grayswandir may provide a needed
level of protection."

"Very well," Corwin said.

"Take this," Mikail said. He handed something round and metallic to
Corwin. "It's a dark-sucking grenade. I just made it. If you have a
problem, try throwing it."

Corwin took the end of the rope and went into the cave. After a few
minutes, we heard a curse and scuffling. I took hold of the rope, pulled
out Galantine, and went into the cave.  The dark was almost thick enough to
feel. I followed the rope toward sounds of struggle. As I approached, I
became fearful that Corwin might strike out at me as I approached.

"Hello," I shouted. "Corwin, it's me!"

"Good," he said. "Pitch in." I could hear movement all around me.

"What do you want me to do?"

"Hold still." I felt him move up against me so that we were back to
back. Tendrils came at us out of the darkness. "Now fight," he said.

We did. For long minutes we battled in the darkness. Tendrils came at us,
trying to grab us, squeeze us, pull us apart. They came from all
directions. We hacked at them. They were tough, but Galantine cut through
the thick hide. A few times our swords hit each other, striking dim sparks
in the darkness.

We heard Mikail's voice from the darkness. "Corwin, it's me!"

"I can tell," Corwin said. "You clatter."

"I can see in here," he said. "I'm going to try something."

"Is there anything we can do?" Corwin asked.

"Give me a minute." We battled some more. The tendrils fought with lessened
ferocity.  "Gotcha!" Suddenly the tendrils withdrew.

"Corwin," Mikail called, "can you come over here?"

"On our way," he said. We worked our way toward the sound of his voice.

"I'm currently protected from the thing and trying to uproot it," Mikail
said. "Go to the wall and try to pull it loose from the other
end. Malachai, protect Corwin's back."

I followed Corwin over to the left as the tendrils again began to attack
us. I covered Corwin while he grunted and strained to dislodge the thing.

"Gerard would love this," he said.

For a few minutes, the monster's strongest arms assailed me, trying to get
to Corwin. As I cut one, then another, a third grabbed me about the ankle
and tried to pull me down. I hopped awkwardly on the other foot and hacked
at the tendril that held me. As it came off, another tried to encircle my
left shoulder. I ducked under that one, swept another two aside, and cut
up another that had started to twist around Corwin's neck.

Then I heard a loud "crack," and the tendrils collapsed about us, writing
feebly but without directed motion. We stood there for a moment, breathing
heavily in the sultry darkness.

"I think it's dead," Corwin said.

"I think you're right," Mikail replied. "Let's get it out into the light so
we can have a look at it."

With some grumbling, we hefted the body of the thing onto sore shoulders
and dragged it back out of the cave. As we emerged, we heard Valeria
playing a flute.

She stopped when she saw us and our burden. "What's this, dinner?" she
asked.

"I'm no vegetarian," Corwin said.  Wearily, we dropped in the sand. It
looked like a huge overripe broccoli with a hundred long tendrils coming
out of it.

"Where's Cassandra?" Corwin asked.

"I found her panicked in the cave when I first went in to help you," Mikail
said. "She ran into a wall trying to get out. I brought her out and sent
her to her cabin in Dalkontyr."

"I think she's all right," Dalkontyr said. "Just a little shaken up."

As Mikail dissected the thing with his swords, we noticed that the cave was
gradually becoming lighter. Soon, the light from outside penetrated its
depths without hindrance.

"I believe this is just a small piece of a much larger creature," Mikail
said. "But with this piece, I can make a bane weapon."

"My back hurts enough after ripping that thing out by its roots," Corwin
said. "I don't think I want to deal with a bigger one."

"How was it you were able to see in there?" I asked Mikail.

"I brought part of a hive mind in," he said, cryptically. "I'm going to go
check out the rest of that cave." With that, he marched in again.  After a
few minutes, he came back out. "It goes back quite a ways," he said. "I
suggest we get everyone together and go in." Then he began discussing with
Dalkontyr whether the ship would be able to shrink down small enough to fit
into the cave.

"It'll take me some time," Dalkontyr said, "but I think I can do it. You go
ahead and I'll catch up."

After some preparation and discussion, we headed back into the cave, this
time with the entire group of us. After perhaps a mile, the passage opened
out into a large cavern.  Lying against the wall, we found a short, bearded
fellow. He was asleep.

Mikail prodded him gently. "Grandfather, wake up."

Dworkin sat up and looked around at us with a dazed expression. I had never
met my great-grandfather before, but I recognized him from several
self-portraits scattered about Castle Amber.  "Who are you?" he asked,
peering at us in the dim light. "Ah, you're my grandson," he said to
Mikail, "but not the one who tried to destroy my Pattern."

"He's dead, Grandfather," Mikail said.

"Not that one," Dworkin said, "Bleys." We looked at each other, unsure how
to respond.

"Well," Dworkin asked, "is it time to build a new Pattern yet?"

"No," Corwin said. "Oberon repaired the first one."

"He's dead, isn't he?"

"No, he repaired the Pattern and survived," Corwin said.

"Well, he looked dead. Then I suppose I don't need to make a new one."

"What were you going to use to make a new Pattern?" Mikail said.

"Why, this...it's gone!" Dworkin held up a chain around his neck which was
conspicuous in that it included a setting but no jewel.  "Here," said
Mikail, "put this in the setting." He handed Dworkin a red jewel that he
had plucked out of the air. "That way, a casual observer won't notice that
it's missing."

Dworkin looked confused. He pulled another red jewel out of his
jacket. "This looks much more like the jewel," he said.

"Well," said Mikail, "I've never actually seen it..."

Dworkin handed him his mock jewel. Then he pulled another out and handed it
to Cassandra, who seemed delighted. Another went to Rivka, and I took one
for Serena.  Yet another went onto Bucephalus' collar. He seemed
pleased. When no one wanted the last two, he ate them.

About that time, Rivka noticed that the cave walls were honeycombed with
many small passageways. There were plant tendrils moving about in each of
them.

"What is this thing?" I asked Dworkin.

"A kraken," he said. "It probably fills this whole mountain."

"How can it be killed?"

"Well, fire is the traditional method."

At this, the mages in our group got little gleams in their eyes. Without
stopping to consult the rest of us, they began lighting the thing on fire
with various spells. Soon it began to writhe about, and we spotted the
jewel grasped by a tendril in the depths of the kraken.  As we discussed
methods of retrieval, Rivka changed her form. She grew larger, wings
sprouted from her shoulders, and she took on the seeming of a goddess. I
always suspected she was more than just a kitchen wench, but this was a bit
much. Rivka launched herself into the air and, quicker than a hummingbird,
darted through the monster's grasping appendages and stole the jewel. It
roared in frustration and we felt the cave walls shake. Deciding that
survival was the better part of valor, we wasted no time in fleeing back
down the tunnel to the beach, where Dalkontyr was just beginning to fold
himself into a more compact size.

"Never mind that," Mikail told him. "We should probably get out of here."

Instantly, we were transported back into Dalkontyr, who quickly headed us
back out into the Sea of Chance. Behind us, the island was ripped apart by
the kraken's death throes (or frustration; I'm not sure if we actually
killed it).

Serena and I hung around for the first part of the victory party. Soon,
however, we retired to our cabin for our own celebration. Later, I got up
and caught this journal up to current time while watching Serena
sleep. Good night, journal.

* * *

We were awakened by Mikail's general announcement that it was time for
everyone to disembark. Serena and I quickly got dressed and went out onto
the deck. We appeared to have acquired a couple of new passengers, whose
names I never got. One appeared to be a daughter of Flora; another a
daughter of Julian.  Mikail made a speech. "I thank you all for the time
you've spent with me, but it's time for you to make your own way. I'm sorry
for the suddenness of this change in plans, but I have urgent business
elsewhere. I have instructed Dalkontyr to send you all back to Chaos."

Suddenly, I was no longer standing on deck. I was in a dark, damp room. A
very familiar room. The room I had spent more than a century in, slowly
being consumed by a blight that changed my own body into the enemy.

I fear that it was too much for me, and I went mad for a time. I ran to the
door and, finding it locked, screamed and fell to the ground, weeping. I
stayed that way for some time, then sat up. I cursed Mikail, his mother,
and the demon ship that sent me here.

Gradually, I became aware of several differences between my present
circumstances and those of my earlier time in this place. First, my body
was fully functional. Second, I had Galantine. Third, Bucephalus was
standing in the corner of the cell, looking worried.  I came to myself and
went over to reassure Bucephalus. Good friend that he is, he ignored my
lapse of reason. Drawing Galantine, I tried pushing her, point first,
through the metal door next to the lock. It went through easily! I pulled
the sword out and kissed her. Then I punched a series of holes in a circle
around the lock. I braced myself and kicked it out. Creaking, the door
swung open with a gentle push.

Outside was an empty corridor. Like my cell, it was lit by some sort of
lichen which glowed dimly on the walls. The corridor felt dusty and
unused. I led Bucephalus out into the corridor and picked a direction. We
wandered for awhile, finding more rooms that were empty or filled with
detritus, but no sign of habitation.

 I took out my deck of Trumps. They all felt lukewarm; an indication that
they were not functioning. I tried several of them anyway, with no
success. With a sigh and another curse for Mikail, I again set forth with
Bucephalus. We wandered for a couple of hours.  I tried going up, I tried
going left at every turn, I tried going right. The corridors were a twisty
maze, with no clear plan. With a sigh, I munched some rations from my
saddlebags, made Bucephalus comfortable, and took a nap. Upon waking, I
again examined my Trump cards. They were cold.  "Now we might be getting
somewhere," I told Bucephalus. He didn't reply.

I tried Gerard's Trump. No matter how much I pushed, I could not reach; the
distance was too great. Fiona and Oberon were the same. Then I tried Corwin
-- and got through!

"Hello?" he said.

"It's me, Malachai," I said.

"We're gathering at the defense knoll," he told me. "You can come here when
you're ready."

"I'm ready now. Would you pull me through?"

"Sure."

I passed Bucephalus through, then took his hand and came through the card
myself. I looked around. We were standing on a hill overlooking a vast pit,
which I took to be the Abyss. At the edge of the pit stood Darhyse, holding
her head out over its bottomless depths. Cassandra had her arms clasped
tightly around Darhyse's neck so that she hung with her feet dangling. I
turned to speak to Corwin, and found that he had sat down at a nearby
table. By it were tethered several horses. The table was large and round,
set with food and drink. At the table sat Serena.

She looked at me with a stiff and formal expression, but with a dark
pleading in her eyes. I went over to her. She was sitting rigidly erect and
did not respond when I tried to embrace her.

"What's wrong?" I asked.

"Later," she said. "When we're alone."

I turned again to Corwin. "What happened?"

"It's a long story..." he began. I felt the strange tingling associated
with a Trump call.

"Excuse me," I said. Corwin stopped.

"Hello?" I said to my caller.

Valeria appeared before me. She was in a large aquatic cave. Behind her was
moored a ship with black sails. "Malachai," she said, "I'm lost."

"I'm with Corwin, Cassandra, and Serena. Would you like to come through?"
"Yes."  "Take my hand." She came forward, said hello to everyone, and sat
down. She looked very tired.

I pointed to Cassandra and Darhyse. "Are they all right?" I asked Corwin.

"It's out of my hands," he said, quietly.

"All right, why don't you tell me what happened?" I said. Serena moved her
chair closer to mine.

"I think it started as a joyous reunion," he said grumpily. "We all got
transported here and there, but through various interlocations, most of us
have gotten back together. The first wave has already gone back to Amber
and we were waiting for you."

"What's up with Cassandra?" I asked.

"I think I might have made a mistake," he whispered.

He didn't really want to talk about it, but I asked anyway. "Oh? What
sort?"

"Raising children is significantly more difficult than anything else I've
ever done before."

"How did they get there?" I asked, pressing further. "What's happening?"

"That's between them. I cannot help them; I think I've meddled enough for
one day."

Valeria, sensing the edge in his voice, tried to change the subject. "So
was this transportation Mikail's idea of further education," she asked, "or
did he screw up?"

"He seems to have screwed up," said Serena in a finely controlled
voice. She squeezed my hand, tightly, but would not look at me.

"Where have we fetched people from, then?" Valeria asked.

"We saved this lady," Corwin said, indicating Serena, "from facing off the
head of the Beastmaster's Guild. Others ended up in harder or easier
places. It seems that Dalkontyr sent us to places in Chaos that we were
most closely connected to. I ended up here, where Deirdre died in my
arms. Merlin ended hanging over the abyss because that's where he started
to gain his freedom. I'm not sure where the others are."

"Where did Cassandra end up?" I asked.

"I have no idea," he said. "She insisted that her friends were in trouble."

"Friends?" I asked.

"You didn't meet them? We picked up some hitchhikers in the Sea of
Chance. I believe they are family, though perhaps not exactly our family."

I recalled the others I saw on Dalkontyr before being transported to
prison.

"Did they go into the Abyss?" I asked. "Is that why Cassandra is hanging
off the edge?"

"I believe it had to do with bad judgment on my part," he said.

"May I ask you to explain?"

"You may ask," he said, "but forgive me if I don't comply." Something in
his eyes warned me against proceeding further.

I tried a different tack. "Is there anything we can do to help?"

"I am open to suggestions," he said.

"I had hoped that, although you won't explain, you might give guidance
regarding possible solutions."

"I think she has to do this one for herself," he said, sadly.

I sighed, defeated. "Would you like companionship while you wait?"

"Sure." He pointed toward the table. "Try the blue stuff. It's excellent."

I poured myself a glass of blue liquid from a decanter. It slid down my
throat with no apparent taste, but the sensation was extraordinary. I moved
my chair adjacent to Serena's, and she seemed glad of my proximity. The
food was good, too.

Darhyse stepped back from the edge and set Cassandra down. Cassandra looked
around.

"Hello, Cassandra!" I yelled down the hill.  While she wiped tears off her
face and made herself presentable, Corwin set a place for her next to his
own. Cassandra walked up the hill toward us. When she arrived, she smiled
at me tentatively.  "It's good to see you," I told her.

She looked uncertain. It appeared that she wanted to sit by me, but with
Serena and Dapple there she had no place. Instead, snubbing the seat next
to her father, she sat by Valeria. She took a glass, filled it with an
orange drink, and took a sip. Corwin stared into his glass, looking
chagrined and embarrassed.

"Where's Merlin?" Cassandra asked.

"He went on with first wave," Corwin said.

"You sent him away?"

"His choice," he said "He's not mine to send or compel."

"Since when?" she spat.

He didn't reply.  "Should we head back?" she asked.

"K'rin, Rivka, and Dworkin have not yet arrived," he said.

"Where are we?" she asked.

"That is the Abyss," I told her. "And there are the Courts of Chaos."

"I see," she said. "What are your plans?"

"At present," I said, "I have none."

"We could go to Amber. Or Rebma."

"We should probably be heading back," Serena said.

"If you want, I can stay and wait for the others," Corwin said. "Valeria,
you can have a horse if you like." He gestured to the horses tethered
nearby.

Cassandra noticed a wooden sword lying on the ground nearby. With a look of
sudden rage on her face, she picked it up and tried to break it over her
knee. It flexed but would not break. Her look turned suddenly cold.

She turned to Corwin. "Very fair," she said "Very fair."

"I couldn't arrange to be perfect," he said. "I'm not, you know."

"You just expect others to be."

He looked into the Abyss. "Usually."

"I hope it was worth it," she said, scornfully.

"Yeah, it was worth a good fifty years of investment." He was not looking
at her.

She tried to slap him, but he grabbed her wrist. She tried again with the
other hand, but he blocked.

"Why'd you do it?" she asked.

"It seemed right at time." He poured some wine into a goblet.

"And now?"

"I'm not so sure it was right. Some of us think we're right all the time."
He took a sip of wine, then stared into the goblet.

"Were you?"

"I'll know in about 15 years." he said.

"Starting over?"

"Should I?" he asked. "That's what you've been threatening me with."

"Why'd you take her away from me?"

"She wasn't there to protect you. If not, then she does you no good."

"What about you?"

"I don't claim to be there all the time," he said. "That's why I gave you
the skills you have."

She broke down then, crying. The rest of us sat there, uncomfortably.

"Why won't you look at me?" she sobbed.

"I want to remember you happy, if this is the last I see of you."

She stopped crying. In the language of Pearl, she said. "Daddy I love
you. Don't leave me!"

"You're the one leaving," he replied in the same tongue. "Not me." She
broke down again.

"Malachai," Valeria said, "are you ready to go?"

"I'm waiting for Cassandra to prepare herself," I said. She shrugged and
waited. So did the rest of us.

While we did so, Serena showed me two printed slips of paper. They appeared
to be tickets for a concert by Random and Martin.

"Where did you get these?" I asked her quietly.

"Random and Martin were here. They left these. The concert is in a week."

"Where?"

"They didn't say."

"I guess we could Trump them," I said. "If we could figure out how long a
week is here as compared to there."

Serena shrugged.

Meanwhile, we continued to listen uncomfortably to the conversation between
Cassandra and Corwin. "What do you want?" she asked him.

"I want you to be happy," he said. "And well-educated." He continued to
stare fixedly into his glass.

"You're going to have to look up from that glass eventually," she said.

He shrugged.

"When can I walk the Pattern?" she asked.

"When you're ready," he said.

"How long will that be?"

"I don't know. Not for awhile."

"Will you take Darhyse away?" she asked. I was starting to figure out what
this was all about.

"No. Keep her," he said. He looked up from the glass. "Do you forgive me?"

Cassandra buried herself in Corwin's arms. All's well that ends well, I
suppose.

They talked some more, but I didn't hear what they were saying. Eventually,
Cassandra gave him her wooden sword in exchange for a glass one. That
didn't seem very useful to me. Perhaps it was symbolic, or enchanted
somehow.

After that, we got ready to leave. Corwin said he would stay at the Abyss
and wait for the others. Serena insisted on combing Dapple thoroughly
before consenting to leave.  Valeria took a horse -- a beautiful black mare
-- and saddled her. I turned to lead us out into Shadow, and realized that
the Abyss stood between us and our destination.

"Um...Corwin?" I said. "How do we get across that."

"Merlin summoned something he called a filmy. Do you know how?"

"I haven't the slightest idea." We looked at each other, finding that no
native guides had materialized in our midst.

"Let me try," Valeria said. She walked over to the Abyss and
concentrated. Soon a flat, wispy cloud appeared and settled itself before
her, forming a bridge across the chasm.

"I'm impressed," I told her.

She smiled, took the reins of her horse, and walked onto it without
hesitation. She continued across.

I looked down. There was no hint of a bottom. I mounted Bucephalus and
nudged him forward. With just a bit of hesitation, he stepped onto the
"filmy." It settled downward ever so slightly with our weight, but bore us
without apparent difficulty. When we were about halfway across, Darhyse and
Dapple bounded past us, bearing Cassandra and Serena.

Once we were across, I concentrated on the first of many changes that would
move us toward Amber. I led us through a strange and shifting
landscape. Hoping not to be bothered by natives, I aimed for areas of low
population and low technology. As we were all somewhat tired, I kept the
pace leisurely, although Dapple and Darhyse often spurted ahead.

Cassandra looked puzzled. "Malachai, if we want to go to Amber, why don't
we just use Trump?"

"A few hours ago, I tried to Trump several people in Amber and couldn't get
through," I said. "I had planned to get closer to Amber and try again, but
if you'd like to try now that would be fine."

"I just wanted to make sure there wasn't a reason not to," she said. She
took out her deck and attempted contact through several
cards. Unfortunately, Trumps worked no better for her than for me.

"Are they warm or cold?" I asked, remembering how they had worked for me
initially.

"Cold. They just aren't working."

"May I try?" asked Serena.

Cassandra gave her one. "What do I do?"

We both explained how to work a Trump, and she tried. Nothing. "I don't get
it," she said, handing back the card.

"You can try when we get closer to Amber," I told her. "There's no reason
why they shouldn't work for you."

About that time I noticed that Valeria was missing. Just wonderful. I took
out my Trump deck and selected hers. When I concentrated on it, I got a
strange sensation, as if I were looking over the shoulder of someone who
was falling slowly. Beyond, I caught a glimpse of a white rabbit wearing a
waistcoat. Then the contact broke.

When I tried again, the contact picked up and then dropped instantly. I
wondered if she was concentrating on slowing her fall and had no attention
to spare for me.

I told Cassandra what had happened. We discussed the situation and decided
to try again in five minutes. We did so. This time, when I tried her card,
I got a fleeting touch with Valeria, then a momentary contact with another
person (female), and a firm contact with yet a third person -- Zack.

"Hello?" he said.

"Hello, Zack," I said. "Something strange is happening. I'm contacting you
on Valeria's Trump."

He looked puzzled, and I explained what had just happened. "Neat," he said,
"I'll try her and then call you back."  The contact broke, briefly, then
began again. "I'm not getting anything," he said. "I am very weirded out by
all of this."

"Me too," I said. "Where are you?"

"In Shadow," he said. "About to have a private party."

"Are you anywhere near Amber?" I asked, hoping for a jump closer to our
destination.

"No," he said. Oh, well.

He noticed Cassandra standing behind me. "Here," he said. "Give this to
Cassandra."  He handed me a rose.

"Might I have another one? There is another lady here."

"Sure." A second rose appeared. I gave one to Serena and one to
Cassandra. They seemed pleased.  "All right," I said to Zack. "I will
probably be experimenting with Trump, and I may get you again soon."

"No problem," he said.

I broke off and explained what had happened to Cassandra. We decided to try
Zack's Trump next. It connected me to him in the usual manner. I said hello
again and broke contact. Then I tried Valeria's Trump again. It connected
me to Zack yet again, this time with no intervening flashes of other
connections.

"Cassandra," I said, "you try Valeria." She did so, got Zack, said hello
(and thanks for the rose), and broke the connection.

We discussed our next course of action. "She seemed all right when I
connected with her," I said. "Maybe she's arranged this somehow to keep
from being bothered. Why don't we continue on and try again in a half hour
or so?" The others agreed.

"How can you tell the passage of time?" asked Serena. "My watch is running
backwards!"

"Dead reckoning," I said. "There isn't any way to be sure."

Mounting back up, we continued onward. In different shadows along the way,
we passed several identical statues. They depicted a winged woman with a
pair of sunglasses in one hand. Her wings were white and her skin slightly
yellow in complexion. She reminded me of something, but of what I wasn't
sure.

While we rode, I asked Cassandra about recent events that had puzzled
me. "Who were those people who appeared on Dalkontyr?" I asked. "The ones
who seemed like family?"

"They were Ivy de Julian, Roland Benedictine, and Jackie Flaumel," she
said. "They are from Amber, but not our Amber."

"A shadow of Amber?" I asked.

"I think so. Where they are from, somebody else is on the throne. Some
girl. Jackie said they held an election. Jackie is pretty good at
swordplay. She's Flora's daughter. I watched her spar with my father."

"Where did they go?" I asked.

"With Zack and Merlin."

"I see." I moved on to the next topic needing clarification. "How did you
end up hanging on Darhyse over the Abyss?"

"We were talking," she said.

"And why did you pick that spot for a conversation?"

"When Dalkontyr sent us to Chaos, we were separated. When we finally got
back together, she was glad to see me and so she ran up and sort of pushed
me back. I hung on and we talked because Corwin was trying to take her away
from me."

"I don't understand."

"Because we got separated, she wasn't there to protect me. Corwin got mad
at her for that, even though it wasn't her fault, because Dalkontyr
separated us without any warning. Anyway, he got mad and told Jackie that
Darhyse was his, not mine."

"Men can be boneheaded at times," Serena commented.

"So I got mad at Corwin and walked away and Darhyse came back and pushed me
to the edge of the Abyss 'cause she was happy to see me. I guess I'm
different from when I was in Pearl. When he fought Ivy and Merlin, he
wanted to fight me too and I didn't want to be humiliated. Of course he was
better than me -- he didn't have to rub my nose in it. That was part of
it."

"It seems like something like this was bound to happen," I said. "Does
Darhyse still answer to Corwin?"

"I don't know," she said. She and Darhyse spoke silently with each other
for awhile.  "She kind of has to do what he says on some things," she said.

"That must be hard to accept," I said.

She nodded.

By that time we had arrived at a pleasant cranny between two rocky
crags. It was well- protected, had good visibility in all directions, and
seemed comfortable. Also, there were no statues. We stopped and I led
Bucephalus over to a stream. After we had both slaked our thirst, I tried
Valeria's Trump. Nothing strange happened; it was simply blocked. In
comparison to the random switching that I had encountered earlier, that was
something of a relief.

From my saddlebags, I removed the canvas pup tent. While the others washed
in the stream, I set it up. I announced that I wanted to take a nap, and
disappeared into the tent. A few minutes later, Serena joined me. We whiled
away an hour with activities of mutual interest. Afterward, while she gave
me a back rub, we talked.

"I feel useless," she said.

"What do you mean?"

"I can't do anything. I feel like all I do is hang around and get in your
way."

"I like having you around, and so does Cassandra."

"But I feel useless. I don't have any powers and I can't fight. I need you
to protect me."

"Do you want to learn how to fight? I could teach you."

"Maybe Cassandra should teach me. A woman would teach me the dirty tricks."

"I'd be happy to teach you dirty tricks, but if you want Cassandra to teach
you that would be all right."

"Maybe both of you. But I still feel useless."

"We're heading back to Amber. You don't have to come next time."

"I don't like Amber, either," she said. "When I'm there I have to be
official and pretend to have authority. I like being with you and sharing
what you have, but I don't have enough. I've had a taste of real power, and
I want to keep eating."

At this, Dapple, who had been sitting outside gnawing on something she had
hunted down, nudged a half-eaten haunch under the tent flap. She had
apparently taken the word "eating" literally when she heard it in Serena's
mind.

After we had chuckled and pushed the tidbit back out, I said, "I can't give
you Pattern.  Once we get closer to Amber we can start practicing with
Trumps if you like. There's no reason why they wouldn't work for you."

"Could I try yours now?" she asked.

"Sure." I took out my deck and handed her my card.

"So you just concentrate on the picture?"

"That's right. Focus a little beyond the card and try to project yourself
into it."

"Oh, my."

"That's it," I told her as I felt the connection establish itself.

"And this will work across any distance?" she asked.

"Yes, although it can be hard to go from Amber to Chaos."

"And to break the connection I just stop concentrating?"

"Yes. It helps to pass your hand across the face of the card." She did so
and the connection ended.

"Can I have this?" she asked, holding up the card.

"All right."

"That way, I can reach you whenever I need to," she said.

"Good. Now if you don't want to be in Amber and you don't want to travel in
Shadow, where do you want to be?"

"I'm not sure. I like being with you, here, but I don't like being just an
extra when all of the others are around."

"Would you like me to find a shadow for you to be in?"

She thought for a moment. "I don't think so."

"How about this. We can go back to Amber, and I'll try to teach you what I
can. Then we can talk about what might suit you."

"That would be good," she said.

"Tell me, what happened when you were transported to Chaos?"

"It was not pleasant. I think it was worse for Dapple than for me."

"What was it?"

"It looked like a huge black winged cat. I mean really big, like the size
of a big building."

"Did Corwin get you out?"

"No. I met up with him later."

"Did it harm you in any way?" I asked.

"Not physically, but it scared the hell out of me."

"Why was it worse for Dapple?" I asked, "because she couldn't help you?"

"No, the Beastmaster didn't pay attention to me, but he talked to Dapple,
like she was a bug about to be killed."

"Then how did you get away?"

"I'm not quite sure. I had passed out by that time."

Shortly after that, as she continued to rub my back, I fell asleep.

I woke up very comfortably wrapped around her. She smelled good. Gently, I
disentangled myself from her and pulled on my pants. Something smelled
good, and when I came out of the tent I saw that Cassandra had cooked up a
savory feast.

I said hello to her and went off to relieve myself. When I came back she
told me about the two roast meats and one stew she had prepared from game
caught by Darhyse and Dapple. I helped myself to some of each and
complimented her on her work.  She smiled and said that she wanted to take
a nap herself. At a word from her, Darhyse transformed into a sort of
living tent. It looked very odd, though comfortable.  Cassandra stretched
and crawled in. Darhyse began to sing her a lullaby. Truly, I have a
strange family.

I tried Valeria's Trump again. Unsurprisingly, it was blocked. I took out
this journal and caught up on it while the others slept.

* * *

Serena woke up and had a wrestling match with Dapple. I'm not sure who
won. She got dressed and came out of the tent.

"Come have breakfast," I said after kissing her good morning. "Cassandra
has provided us with a lovely repast."

She dug in, giving me occasional choice bites. She offered one to Dapple,
who was appalled at the idea of eating cooked meat.

After awhile, Cassandra got up. Darhyse went off to hunt, still in tent
form. Cassandra had breakfast and offered us all candies that she had
gotten from Zack. I tried a blue one. It did not have a flavor so much as
an experience.

We packed up the tent and the food. I groomed Bucephalus and we got ready
to go.  Dapple and Serena ran off. Darhyse and Cassandra followed. I gave
chase, noticing that Bucephalus seemed much faster than he had
previously. Perhaps it had something to do with the surprise Serena had
told me about.

We saw another statue. Darhyse stopped to examine it, so we all did. It
looked like a statue to a goddess. There were offerings of jewelry and
food.

We kept going. More statues appeared here and there.  Finally, I smacked
myself. "Aha!" I said, "I know where I've heard of these statues!  Paolo's
story. Gwen looked like that."

We didn't know what to do with that information, so we elected to
continue. A few hours later, I got a Trump call and answered it. It was
Captain Prospero, looking quite confused.

"Hello," he said. "Is this thing on?"

"Hello, Prospero," I said. "What's going on?"

"I told Fiona that I needed to get in touch with you, and she gave me this
card. How does it work?"

"Surely you know what a Trump is."

"I suppose. I am not well-versed in such things. You remember certain
investments we have made?"

"You mean various merchant expeditions?"

"Yes. Well, they're losing money, because the port of Amber is closed."

"How so?" I asked.

"Do you recall the shadow force brought in by Llewella to provide Amber with
naval security?"

"Yes. It seemed like a foolish idea."

"Well, they aren't allowing anything into or out of Amber without Oberon's
leave, and he's gone. There are lots of merchants who are very concerned."

"How about overland travel?"

"There are few routes through Shadow that are wholly confined to land."

"What did you want me to do about it?"

"I had hoped that you, with your family connections, might be able to place
a word in the right ear."

"I have a better idea," I said. "Rather than trying to fix this problem,
let's take advantage of it. We could get a caravan together and go overland
through Shadow. I can lead us."

"All right. How soon can you get here?"

"Call me back in fifteen minutes."

"I'm not sure how to work this thing. I was just fiddling with it and I
somehow got you."

"Stare at the image on the card and concentrate on making it real."

"All right. Fifteen minutes then." He continued to look at me.

"To end the connection, pass your hand across the card."

"Got it, pass my..." The contact ended.

I explained the situation to Cassandra and Serena. Cassandra liked the idea
of Trumping through to Amber. Serena saw the investment opportunities,
given the current market situation in Amber.

After about three minutes, I got another Trump call.

"Hello?" I said. It was Prospero.

"I waited exactly fifteen minutes," he said, "because I thought there might
be some kind of expiration effect." Apparently we were in a slow time
shadow.

"Do you mean you've been an officer in the Lancers for three hundred years
and you don't know how Trump work?"

"I haven't had much cause," he said huffily.

"We will be coming through to you." He looked at me like I had told him we
would be holding a dinner party in his left nasal cavity.

"Surely you know that Trumps can be used for transport?"

"I thought only the Royals could do that."

"That's what they want you to think," I said. "In a moment you will be
taking Serena's hand."

"Who?"

"You've met her. A lovely redhead."

"Ah, the ambassador." He winked, impressed that I was keeping company with
a lady of such beauty and station.

"Yes. Just pull her toward you and she will appear before you." I looked
behind him -- he appeared to be in a small tent. "Perhaps you should step
outside first."

He did so. I saw that he was on the pier in Amber.  "Excuse me, but why
have you pitched a tent on the pier?" I asked.

"Ah, you wish to know why I was in a tent on the pier?"

"Yes, you have it exactly," I said.

"Fiona suggested that I might want to use the card in a private place," he
said.

"Pardon me, but I do not quite understand. You say that Fiona recommended
privacy?"

"Yes, that was what she said."

"Why?"

"She didn't explain. However, I reasoned that a tent is private."

"And why on the pier?" I asked.

"That was where I was when I decided to call you."

"I see."  I turned to Serena. "My dear," I said, "If you would take the
colonel's hand."

Serena, familiar with this use of Trump, went through without
difficulty. However, the Trump connection ended. Apparently, Prospero had
lost concentration when Serena appeared.  A moment later, I felt another
contact. It was Serena. "We thought it best if I handled the Trump," she
explained.

I could only agree that this seemed the wisest course. Within the minute,
we were all standing on a pier at Amber. I noticed that the Trump she held
bore a portrait of me, but not the usual one from the standard deck.
Prospero introduced a very large fellow named Tal, whom he identified as a
caravan master. I congratulated Prospero on his forethought in providing us
with one. We discussed various mercantile plans. As we did so, Cassandra
decided to head up the hill toward the castle, explaining that she had
business there. I gave her a hug and wished her well.

After she had left we continued our planning. We decided to wander through
various taverns where merchants with cargoes they could not move might be
willing to sell valuable goods at bargain prices.

About an hour later, several deals had been made. I was heading into a
rather seedy- looking tavern when I received a Trump call. It was
Cassandra.

"Hello, Malachai," she said. "I've had a run-in with a thug." I heard
moaning at her feet.  "Is there a Guard in this city? I can't find anyone."

"Yes, there is, but of course they're never around when you need them."

"What does one do with a damaged thug in this city? I don't know the
protocol."

"Just roll him into a gutter," I told her. "He'll either wander off or
someone will find him sooner or later."

"That seems rather messy."

"It's a messy city. Don't worry about it."

"All right," she said. "If you have any problems on your trip, give me a
call."

"Alas, Cassandra, I have no Trump of you."

"Oh, yes," she said bitterly, "I'm too young for a Trump portrait. I'll
give you a call if I don't hear from you in three or four days."

"Please do," I said.

"Goodbye."

"Goodbye," I said. She ended the connection.

After three days of haggling, we were ready to leave. The caravan consisted
of 120 pack animals -- mostly mules -- and their drivers, with 80 lancers
as guards. Also along were Colonel Prospero, Serena, Tal, and myself. We
went through Garnath, to avoid Julian and to pick up a few cases of spiced
wine on the way out. That night, as I slept, we were attacked by
trolls. Those on guard, wanting to keep the fun for themselves, dealt with
them without waking anyone up (lancers are elite, after all). There were
two dead trolls next to the camp when I awoke (turned to stone at the crack
of dawn); two others had apparently escaped.

That morning I began shifting us toward our first destination -- a Golden
Circle kingdom called Ethernon that I had visited once before. It was a
beautiful desert city at the edge of a golden sea. Fortunately for us, a
good part of our trade goods (particularly spices and opals) were in high
demand there, and we made considerable profit.

The second place we visited, a border town called Kazdir, was having a
religious celebration. At the center of town was the same statue of a
winged woman with sunglasses we had seen in our travels near Chaos. It was
apparently the object of worship. I made some discrete inquiries,
discovering that the statue had recently appeared overnight. The next day,
a lame girl was healed as she passed by the statue.  Since then, a cult had
grown up to pay homage to the new goddess (no one knew her name). We did
our business and continued onward.

Soon after we left, I received a Trump contact.

"Hello?" I was expecting Cassandra, since she had told me she would be
getting in touch.

"Hello, Malachai." It was Valeria. Behind her was Castle Amber. "I was
wondering if you know about some Amberites who have disappeared recently."

"I find your question interesting, since the last time I saw you, you
disappeared shortly thereafter."

"Yes, well, things got complicated. Eventually, I was rescued by Zack, and
then he suggested I go to Faerie, but he didn't tell me what the rules are
there. So I didn't know not to eat there or accept gifts. Anyway, I just
escaped." She didn't seem pleased with Zack.

"Did you know that your Trump has been behaving very oddly?"

"No."

"Yes, when I tried you just after you disappeared, I got a woman falling,
whom I believe was you -- "

"It probably was," she said.

"And then it jumped to Zack. After that, it went to Zack whenever I tried
to Trump you."

"Yes, well, that was probably his doing."

"He said he didn't understand it," I said.

"I'm sure he did. Anyway, I just came from the remains of Julian's hunting
party. He seems to have disappeared and he's not responding to Trump."

"Interesting. I haven't tried him, myself. Have you encountered any odd
statues in Shadow lately?"

"No."

"There seems to be a statue of a winged woman with sunglasses appearing
throughout Shadow. It didn't worry me at first, when I saw them near the
Courts of Chaos, but I just encountered one here in the Golden Circle."

"They sound like the woman in Paolo's story -- what was her name?"

"Gwen. Do you have any reason to think these statues are a threat?"

"Well, she didn't seem to like Paolo, Mikail, or Clarissa."

"True. If you happen to encounter them, please get in touch with me and
tell me about it."

"Certainly."

"So what was it you were calling about?" I asked.

"Julian is missing, and so are Clarissa and Oberon. Do you know anything
about them?"

"I'm afraid not. I'll let you know if I run across them."

"Thanks."

"Anything else?"

"No. See you later."

"Goodbye."

At the third destination -- a city called Jikashalvo -- another caravan had
just passed through. Consequently, many of our goods could be sold at only
normal market prices.  We did a little business and kept going.

Some of the lancers began complaining of boredom. I told them we would soon
be back in Amber, but they suggested that we drop them somewhere
interesting. I let 20 troopers off at Ak-Nesh, a port city where
mercenaries were always in demand and where ships from Amber would dock
eventually. Near Ak-Nesh, in the wilderness, I spotted another winged
statue. We kept going.

A day later, I got a Trump call from Bleys.

"Hello, Malachai," he said. "I was wondering if you've run into any..."

"Statues of winged women with sunglasses?" I asked.

"Why, yes." he said. "I suppose you have. How about armed marauders with
guns where guns shouldn't be?"

"No, nothing like that. Why?"

"There have been attacks on family members."

"I see. Has anyone been hurt?"

"Not seriously. I believe we redheads are the primary targets."

"And these attacks have occurred in the vicinity of the statues?"

"Yes."

I told him about the fragment of Paolo's journal I had read which mentioned
a winged woman with glasses. He was quite interested.

"So I suggest you get in touch with Clarissa or Mikail if you need more
information."

"Clarissa is not currently available. I have not attempted to speak with
Mikail since he killed my son."

"Alastair? I hadn't heard that."

"Yes," he said quietly. "Anyway, I would be grateful if you could get a
chunk of a statue for analysis. I'd like to know if they are all made of
the same stuff."

"If I come upon a statue I shall endeavor to obtain a sample of it. I was
recently near Chaos and found them there, also."

"Where are you now?"

"Near the Golden Circle."

"I thought you were still near Chaos. That they have appeared near Amber is
very disturbing."

"I agree," I said.

"All right, then. Do call if you get a sample. You have my Trump?"

"Yes," I said.

"Excellent. Good luck."

"And you." The contact ended.  I rode over to Prospero. I told him of my
conversation with Bleys and warned him that things might get more
interesting.

"I certainly hope so," he said. "Are you going to seek out this statue by
yourself or do you want us to back you up?"

"I think we should proceed as if nothing has happened. We have only one
more stop scheduled before heading toward Amber. If we see a statue, I
intend to get a piece of it and then get us away."

"Very well."

Then I rode over to Serena and told her of recent developments.

"Are you sure you want to stay with the caravan?" I asked. "I could Trump
you back to Amber."

"No, I want to stay with you."

"All right, but keep that protective medallion on all the time."

"I will," she promised. I didn't tell her that if Mikail were the enemy, it
probably wouldn't help.

Perhaps because we were looking for them, we didn't see any more
statues. Our last stop was a pastoral shadow called Asitica. We made a
fortune on green vormite crystals there, then headed back toward Amber with
a cargo of high-value luxury goods. When we got there, we were not
disappointed. The blockade was still up, so nothing had gotten into the
port in some time. The ships in dry-dock were not even being worked
on. Therefore, our goods were in high demand indeed. When I left Prospero
we had not finished selling, but the profit looked to be on the order of
10,000 percent. Serena, who had put up about 80% of the original
investment, was quite pleased, having gone from being comfortably well-off
to filthy rich. I had also made a tidy profit.

I approached Prospero as he was busy dickering with a jewelry wholesaler, a
mercantile grin upon his craggy face. It took a few minutes, but I
eventually broke in.

"I'm going to the castle," I told him.

"What do you mean?" he asked. "I have the next caravan already planned. We
can leave tomorrow. With these profits the next one will make a real
killing."

"I will not be available immediately," I said. "I have some business to
take care of."

"But Malachai, the profits..."

"I'm sorry, but there are other matters at hand. I will be with you when I
can."

Prospero was clearly disturbed by this turn of events. "Very well," he
said, "but let me know as soon as possible when you'll be able to guide the
next caravan. I do not need to remind you that timing is critical."

"I understand," I said, patting his shoulder, "I'll be in touch."

I said farewell to Serena, who was also involved in buying and selling. I
mounted Bucephalus and made my way through the city toward the castle. On
the way, at the corner of Pitch Chandler's Row and Charlatan's Street, I
ran into an old comrade.

"Malachai!" he said. "It's good to see you again." He looked at my uniform,
"You've done very well for yourself, Sir."

It had been many years, and I could not for the life of me remember the
fellow's name.  He was tall and thick, and he had developed the sort of
solid belly one gets from years of drinking beer. His square, ruddy face
had a heavy scar running vertically down his left cheek. He was dressed in
good but very worn clothing, suggesting that he had finished the savings he
had garnered while in His Majesty's service and was not doing so well on
his pension.

"It's good to see you, too," I said, shaking his hand. "How have you been?"

"Actually," he said, "I have a problem."

I imagined gambling or drinking concerns, but he surprised me. "It's my
daughter," he said. "She's run away to join a cult."

"Don't tell me, let me guess," I said. "A statue of a winged woman with
sunglasses."

"You know them?"

"Only peripherally," I said.

"Well, she went with them to Tremere. It's a Shadow near..."

"I know it," I said. Tremere was a Golden circle shadow about half a day's
shadow shift away. "Please go on."

"Well, they have this cult. It is said to heal people. The cult worships
the statue and denies the existence of other gods, even the unicorn."

"Did they kidnap her or did she go willingly?"

"I'm no sure. Anyway, I'm working to recruit some men to go and get her. Do
you think you could help out?"

"Possibly. When do you leave?"

"Well, now...I'm not sure. I never was a leader type. I was sort of hoping
you might take over the planning."

"I have some things to take care of today. Where might I be able to find
you tomorrow?"

"I'm staying at the Skunk and Paddle."

"I know where it is. I'll meet you there tomorrow morning around ten."

"Thanks, Mal...uh, Captain. I'll see you then."

With that, we parted and I rode the rest of the way through the city and up
to the castle.  By that time it was about ten in the morning. The guards at
the gate told me the date, from which I determined that we had been gone
for ten local days. Subjectively, I had been gone for about thirty five
days. I asked if Cassandra was in the castle. One guard snickered quietly
while another told me she was at breakfast. From the snicker I assumed that
she had gotten herself a lover, probably one of the guardsmen.

I bade them good day and made my way to the feast hall. I spotted her at
the head table, along with Serena, who was engaged in an animated
discussion with two other ambassadors. Benedict sat behind them at his
guard post. Fiona sat at another table with Darkstar, while Flora was in a
quiet corner with a white-haired fellow I didn't recognize. As I walked
through the hall toward Serena, I noticed Merlin sitting by himself with a
very large omelet. He beckoned for me to join him, but I held up a finger
to indicate that I would be with him shortly.

Serena was dressed in casual clothes: purple breeches, riding boots, and a
soft leather tunic in brown and red. This was a radical departure from her
normal habits, as she always dressed formally when in the castle or when
she might be in the presence of royal family members (myself and a few
others excepted).

She smiled as I approached. "How did you get here so quickly, I asked?" I
noticed a Trump card face down on the table.  "I have my ways," she said,
hiding the card. I made a mental note to check my deck to see if any of my
cards were missing.

"You look lovely," I told her, "but you don't usually dress this way in the
castle."

"I'm rich now. I can dress the way I want." She seemed very relaxed.

"I need to talk to Cassandra for a bit. I'll be with you shortly."

"Later."

I went over to Cassandra's side of the table. She held herself stiffly, as
if she was rather sore. "Hello, Cassandra," I said.

"Hello, Malachai."

"I was a bit worried. You said you would call me after four days. It's been
ten."

"Oh, I'm sorry!"

"Don't be. I was just worried about your safety."

"I was, uh, kind of distracted. By the way, where does one practice around
here?"

"Practice what?" I asked.

"Sparring, swordplay, that sort of thing."

"There's a floor below the kitchens that has some private practice rooms
for family members."

"Good, I'll go down there later today."

"That reminds me," I said. "I've been meaning to ask a favor of you."

"What sort?"

"Serena has expressed interest in improving her fighting skills, but she's
a bit uncomfortable with learning from me. It wouldn't be very good
practice for you, but do you think you could show her a few things?"

"I'd be happy to."

"I don't like being talked about in the third person," Serena said from the
other end of the table.

"I was just arranging for you to get some fencing lessons," I said.

"Oh, all right, then," she said.

"How about later this morning?" Cassandra said to her.

"Eleven?" asked Serena.

"That's fine," Cassandra said.

"If you're looking for some practice, I would be happy to spar with you," I
said. I was curious about the skills Corwin had taught her.

"Gladly," she said.

"How about noontime?"

"That would be fine."

Then I changed the topic. "Listen, have you heard anything about those
statues we saw out in Shadow?"

"No."

"Excuse me," said a very primly dressed fellow seated across from
Cassandra. "I couldn't help overhearing. Do you refer to a statue of a
woman with wings?"

"Yes," I said.

"One has appeared in my homeland. I am the ambassador from Tremere."

"I am pleased to meet you, Sir. I am Malachai. I hear that a cult has
developed."

"I know nothing of it. I serve my king's government. The people's
activities are not my concern."

"Your government is not interested in the people?" asked Cassandra.

"I serve my king," he said, huffily. "Not his subjects."

Cassandra looked like she would go over the table at him, but I sat down
beside her and placed a hand on her shoulder. "These statues are appearing
everywhere," I said quietly, "and there are cults developing around
them. According to Bleys, there have been attacks on family members by
marauders with guns."

"What do you plan to do about it?"

"I'm not sure. Do you think Benedict knows about all of this?"

"Probably some of it. Maybe not all of it."

"I suppose I should talk to him, then. But not in public."

"No," she said.

"I'm going to go talk to Merlin about a few things. I'll see you later."

"Bye."

I went over to the corner where Merlin was seated and sat down next to
him. He was just finishing up a huge omelet that smelled wonderful.

"That looks delicious," I said. "What's in it?"

"Oh, things from here and there. I've finally got the right ingredients and
showed the cooks how to make one."

I signaled a waiter. "I'll have one of those," I said.

"You want one of those, Sir?" he asked, seeming shocked.

I turned to Merlin. "You don't have to know how to shapeshift in order to
be able to eat one safely, do you?"

"No, of course not," he said.

"Then yes," I said to the waiter. "I want one of those."

"Very well, Sir."

Merlin and I made small talk for awhile. I soon noticed him tapping his
fingers to some sort of inner beat. I looked closer and recognized the
Lancer's battle code. He was signaling, "the one I am ignoring needs to be
watched."

I continued to chat with him. Behind Merlin were Flora and her white-haired
friend, whom I assumed to be the one he was ignoring. I nodded to indicate
that I understood his signal. By then my omelet had arrived. I took a bite,
and found the taste to be every bit as wonderful as its smell, although I
could recognize none of the ingredients.

After a few minutes of silently attacking my breakfast, I asked, "Do you
know anything about the statues that have been appearing in Shadow?"

"No. What statues?"

I told him about them.  "I don't know what they are," he said, "but
considering that Oberon and Clarissa are currently missing, I think they
are a major threat."

While we spoke, I signaled to him in finger-speak, "Why watch him?"

By that time, he had finished his omelet. "I need a walk to aid my
digestion. Perhaps I'll talk to you later."

"Yes, I'd like that."

I dug into my omelet with renewed vigor. About a minute later I felt a
Trump contact.  "Hello," I said silently.

It was Merlin. "The white haired fellow is a member of the Dancer's Guild
in Chaos."

"So?"

"He is very dangerous. Let me put it this way; at one time it was thought
that the Assassin's Guild was obsolete because of the competition they
received from the Dancers."

"What happened?"

"No one is sure. I think the Dancers infiltrated the Assassins and use them
as a front.  That one is named Rainbow. I am very worried about him being
in Amber."

"Has he approached you?"

"No. That's one of the things that worries me. I have been watching him
very closely and very obviously. He has taken no notice. For all I know
that's not actually Rainbow.  Hell, maybe the person we think is Flora is
actually Rainbow and the one in Rainbow's shape is just a flunky. I do know
this is bad, very bad."

"Have you told anyone besides me?"

"I tried Oberon and Corwin, but they are not available. I tried Caine, but
he is still very weak -- I think I drained him a bit just by Trumping him."

"What about Benedict?"

"He knows, but doesn't seem to be concerned."

"Would you mind if I talk to him about all of this?"

"No, not at all."

"All right," I said. "I'll go try him."

"Fine. I'll continue to keep an eye on Rainbow. Watch your back." The
connection ended.

I finished up the last of my breakfast, then headed for my quarters. I
changed clothes and took out my Trump deck. I fanned through the cards and
discovered that my Trump of Castle Amber was missing. That was how Serena
had gotten here so quickly. I made a mental note to discuss the matter with
her and pulled out Benedict's card.

When I got through to him he was standing at ease on the parade
ground. "Yes?" he said.

"Hello, Benedict. There are some matters related to the security of the
realm that I'd like to discuss with you privately."

"Then we should not use Trump, as this is not a secure method of
communication."

"Is there a place we could talk without being overheard?" I asked.

"Why don't you come through?"

"All right." I took his hand and stepped through the Trump. Nearby were
perhaps a hundred troops marching in almost perfect silence. It was quite
impressive.

"What did you want to tell me?" he asked.

I figured that if it were not safe to tell Benedict everything, then we
were already lost.  So I told him of the statues, of Paolo's journal, and
of my conversation with Bleys.

"You trust him?" he asked.

"Only a bit. But as far as I can tell Bleys does not want to see Amber
harmed. And I don't see any harm in helping him in this matter. It might
provide information."

"I would recommend that you share any information you gain with others --
perhaps your cousin Riannon. She would be a good independent counsel and
she has excellent resources."

"All right, I'll speak with her. What is your plan?"

"I have people looking into several of the statues. Other than that, I will
continue to gather information and protect Amber."

"Do you know where Oberon or Clarissa are?"

"No. I am concerned that Oberon may be planning to walk your father's
Pattern."

"By 'father' I assume you mean Corwin?"

"Yes."

"What makes you believe that he is my father?"

"I know that it is not Eric. During the time that you would have to have
been conceived, he was under close surveillance and sired no
children. Therefore, I deduce that Corwin is your father."

"No other?"

"Oberon is another possibility, but not likely."

"I hadn't thought of that."

"What will you do now?"

"I'm not sure. Do you have any suggestions?"

"The warrior's course is direct. Perhaps the diplomat's course would be
more useful at this point."

I wasn't sure what that meant. "You have no objection to my helping Bleys
for now?"

"No. You may wish use me as a clearing house for information, as others are
doing."

"I will. Anything else?"

Benedict was already turning to his troops. "No," he said over his
shoulder.

I walked back to my quarters. Once there I sat in my favorite chair and
looked through my Trumps again. I selected Oberon's. I tried it and got
nothing. I tried Zack's Trump; he was asleep. I tried Valeria's Trump; I
got Zack. I tried Corwin's Trump; there was a hint of distant presence, but
I couldn't get through.

Then I tried Bleys. "Hello?" he said. I saw that he was riding through some
chaotic landscape.

"Is this a bad time?" I asked.

"Give me five minutes. I'll call you back."

I waited, not sure what his five minutes meant in Amber time. About five
minutes later, I got a Trump call. It was Bleys. This time he was
dismounted, in a pastoral landscape.

"What's up?" he asked.

"I haven't managed to get a sample for you, but one of the statues has
appeared in Tremere. I'll be going there tomorrow to get a piece."

"Be careful. I recommend that you not talk to it."

"Why not?"

"I've gotten several samples from different statues. I held a conversation
with the last one. The distraction nearly got me killed."

"A conversation? About what?"

"Higher-order shadow manipulation. Quite a fascinating mind."

"Have you found out anything else?"

"Not really. I am concerned that they have penetrated so close to Amber as
Tremere. I would very much appreciate a sample of that one."

"If everything goes well, I will have one for you tomorrow."

"Excellent. Call me then, or if you need assistance."

"I'll do that. Good luck."

"And you." With that, he ended the connection. I got in touch with a castle
servant and ordered hot water for a bath. I started catching up on this
journal when I got a Trump contact. It was Corwin.

"I felt you trying to reach me a little while ago. I Trumped closer to
Amber and called you."

"I'm glad you called. Some weird things have been happening that I thought
you should know about." I told him about the statues, which he had not
heard of before.

"You have not seen them in Shadow?" I asked.

"I've been waiting near Chaos for the others. Then I Trumped here, so I
have had no opportunity to encounter them.  I'll be sure to look for them
now."

"There's more. Benedict believes that Oberon is considering a walk on your
Pattern."

"That idiot. I'll go speak with him."

"Good. Tell him his new fleet isn't working out very well."

"How so?"

"They won't let any ships into or out of the city."

"In that case, could you do me a favor?"

"What's that?"

"Make sure the lighthouse keeper at Cabra has supplies. He depends on
passing ships."

"I'll do that."

"Or I could call Merlin. He can just conjure something up."

"I'll speak with him."

"I would appreciate that," he said. "See you later."

"Good luck." With that, he ended the contact.

By that time, my bath water had arrived. I had a long, relaxing soak. Then
I finished this journal entry. Soon I will go meet Cassandra for our
practice session.  We'll see how it goes.

***

Shortly after finishing the previous entry, I got a Trump call from
Cassandra.  "Hello, Malachai," she said. "Could I ask you a favor?"

"What's that?"

"We were going to have a sparring session in a few minutes, and I don't
have a weapon.  Could you get my sword for me in my room?"

"Certainly," I said. "Where can I find it exactly?"

"On the windowsill next to the bed."

"All right. I'll get it on my way. See you soon."

"Bye."

I went over to her room. The door was open, and there were several
servants. I noticed Fiona's seamstress pinning the sleeves on a dress that
was laid out upon a dummy.  There was also a scrawny-looking cat bouncing
around the room. I checked on the windowsill, but the sword wasn't
there. Instead, it hung from a peg in one corner of the room. Without a
word to the servants, who did not challenge me, I took the sword from the
peg and left the room. Then, since the rooms downstairs are usually bare, I
got two fencing epees from the guardroom.

I thought about Trumping Cassandra, but decided that I could use some
exercise.  Instead, I went to the stairway and jogged down. After many,
many steps I arrived at the level of the practice room. The guard at the
entrance waved me over.

"Cassandra and your lady are in there," he said. "They went and got a
mat. You might want to wait until they're done." He gave me a wink to
indicate that we both knew what was going on in there, and it was steamy.

I thought about clobbering him, but decided to mess with his mind
instead. "Actually," I said, "I'm here to join in."

He gave me a flabbergasted look as I stepped past him and knocked on the
door.  "Come," said Cassandra.

I opened the door and stepped in. Contrary to the expectations of the
guard, Cassandra was there alone. The room was of a good size, illuminated
through some magical means with a diffuse light. The walls and ceiling were
bare stone, but part of the floor was covered with a woven mat. Leaning in
one corner was the glass sword Corwin had given her.

Cassandra looked slightly tired. We exchanged pleasantries for a few
minutes. When I asked, she told me that the sword was just made of glass,
and that Corwin used it effectively without breaking it. I didn't quite
understand how or why he would do this, but I didn't question her any
further.

Then we had a discussion about how to proceed. She was confused about the
epees I had brought down; apparently she'd never used this sort of practice
blade before, although I knew they were in common use when her father was
in Amber.

"All right," I said, "what would you like to do?"

"Whatever you're comfortable with."

"Well, why don't I show you some practice moves, and you can let me know
when things get complicated."

"All right."

I took an epee and went through a few basic exercises. She took the other
and copied what I was doing effortlessly. I made things more complex. She
followed along. Soon I was performing some of the more complex exercises
that Otto had been showing me a few months ago. She didn't have much
problem.

"Hmm," I said.

"Are these basic moves for you?" she asked.

"They're kind of advanced," I said, feeling a bit chagrined. "Why don't we
try sparring?"

"OK."

Again we started simply, with basic attacks, parries, and ripostes; just
feeling each other out. Gradually, we increased the complexity of the
maneuvers we tried. She was doing, fine, but seemed to be working hard. Her
style didn't seem to consider the bind as a possibility. I tried closing
and tweaked her on the nose with my free hand. She seemed startled.

I decided to see whether she could compensate. Starting with a series of
outside feints and parries, I tried to close with her again, this time
thinking to trip her. On the way in, she did a strange little point
maneuver and touched me on the neck. I was 'dead.'  "Good," I
said. "Again?"

"All right."

We sparred for a bit longer and I decided to try the same sort of maneuver
again, this time in the context of a downward beat in sixte and a spinning
leg hook with my right foot. As I came in, striking her point down, she
flowed with the beat and flicked her edge along the thigh that I was so
neatly presenting to her, 'hamstringing' me just as I pulled her off
balance. She fell to the floor and tried to roll out, but my point was at
her throat.

"I win," I said, "but you took a piece of me. Show me how you did that."

She demonstrated. Somehow her pattern tended to give her a strike whenever
anyone came in on her. We ran through it a few more times, slowly, but I
didn't quite see how it worked. She showed me, step by step, and I began to
get it. Her positioning, at each step, tended to put the sword where the
opening would be if the opponent closed.  There was no single move that she
repeated, so there was no single secret. This would require thought and
practice.  We practiced some more. I tried a couple of other closing
maneuvers, but if I concentrated on parrying the counterthrust, the close
itself was clumsy and obvious. I couldn't find any other weaknesses in her
style. I had a considerable advantage in reach, but if I stayed back, she
could pretty much parry what I sent at her. Clearly, she was used to
opponents whose arms were longer than hers.  It became clear that with
single swords, she was better than me. I could beat her two out of five
times, or more if I were willing to cripple myself on the way in. I thought
I could take her with sword and dagger (I could parry that counterthrust),
with polearm, or with a good-sized axe.  Unfortunately, we had no such
weapons to practice with.

Finally, after I knew not how long, Cassandra said she was tired and
hungry. I must admit that I was a bit fatigued myself. I thought to Trump
upstairs, but Serena had stolen my card. When I asked, Serena said that she
did have one. After she had returned the mat to the room from which she had
gotten it, we Trumped up to the courtyard. It was dark out. In fact, from
the position of the moon, it appeared to be near midnight.

We discussed ways to improve the practice room and made some plans.

"I'm very hungry," Cassandra said.

"I propose that we go get cleaned up and meet in the kitchen in twenty
minutes," I said.  "Agreed," she said, and we parted company.

I went up to my room and stripped off my sodden clothes. Stretching some of
the kinks from my overused muscles, I washed off. Then I got dressed and
headed down to the kitchen. Cassandra had just arrived.

I found the head shift of the night shift, who was quite willing to assist
us. "I'd like one of Merlin's omelets please," I said.

He looked at me in astonishment. "You want one of those?" he said. "I'll go
wake someone."

Before I could tell him that it wasn't that important, he darted off. Oh,
well. Sometimes, it's nice to be royalty. In a few minutes, the morning
chef arrived. Muttering to himself, he gathered a bewildering variety of
nameless ingredients and began to combine them according to a complex
formula.

"That looks good," Cassandra said, munching a pastry.

"You want one?" asked the cook.  Cassandra nodded, her mouth full.

After taking in our famished appearance and accounting for the appetites of
the royal family, he said, "I'll make enough for four."

"Good plan," I said.

A few minutes later, we had our omelets. For several minutes, the only
sounds we made were eating sounds. The omelets were, of course, good beyond
description, particularly given our state of hunger.

"These are Merlin's recipe," I said when the greater part of my hunger was
slaked. "I'll have to ask him what they are called."

Cassandra could only nod, her mouth full.

Finally, we were both done. As we sat in the afterglow of a meal well
eaten, I told her about my planned expedition to Tremere.

"Do you want company?" she asked.

"I would be happy for your company."

"When are you leaving?"

"Tomorrow morning."

"Then I guess we'd better get some sleep."

"I'll see you at breakfast, then."

"Goodnight."

"Goodnight." I went up to my room and found Dapple sleeping in one
corner. I checked the bed -- Serena wasn't there. Figuring that if she was
in any trouble, Dapple wouldn't be asleep, I decided not to worry. I
undressed, crawled under the covers, and was instantly asleep.

I awoke with a cold cat nose pressing into the small of my back. I reached
around and scratched Dapple behind the ears. Gently, she butted my side.

"All right, all right," I said. "I'll get up."

As I washed, I looked out the window. It appeared to be a couple of hours
after dawn; I was right on time. Dapple gave me a bump on the hip to move
me along, so I dressed.  Because I didn't want to be recognized in Tremere
as an Amberite, I wore nondescript clothes: high black boots, brown suede
breeches, and a purple shirt. Despite Dapple's interference, I managed to
pack my saddlebags with rations, travel gear, and a couple of spare
uniforms. Then I headed down to breakfast with Dapple at my heels.

When I got to the doorway of the feast hall, Dapple stayed in the
doorway. Serena was seated at the high table, speaking with a couple of
other ambassador. She was dressed elegantly in a green dress that went well
with her hair. Near her sat Cassandra, eating heartily. For such a small
person, her food capacity is truly impressive.  I walked up to the high
table and approached Serena, who seemed to be very involved in an official
discussion. She greeted me formally, using my titles, and introduced me to
the other ambassadors, who also claimed a variety of titles. I politely
excused myself and went over to Cassandra.

I sat beside her; as I did so, the table stretched out to give me room. We
exchanged pleasantries. I felt a large tongue licking at my foot, so I
reached down and scratched Darhyse' head.  Merlin came in, looking very
unhappy about being up so early. He sat down at another table, studiously
not looking at Rainbow, who was entertaining Flora on the other side of the
hall. He ordered some sort of large sweet roll. Cassandra immediately
ordered the same thing. Since his taste in breakfast had proven marvelous,
I followed suit.

The sweet roll was not as good as the omelet, but it was quite delicious
nonetheless.

"So," said Cassandra, "is Serena coming along?"

I looked across at her. She appeared to be engaged in intense negotiations.

"I think she's busy," I said.

Once we had finished our breakfast, we planned to meet at the stables in a
few minutes.

I went over to Merlin and sat down next to him. We talked briefly about my
plans for the next couple of days.  "Would you like to come along?" I
asked.

"I don't think so. You'll have Cassandra to look after you and I still have
business here."

About that time, Serena, having finished her business for the time being,
came over. I again explained my immediate plans.

"Will you be coming along?"

"No, I can't make it. But be ready for the next expedition."

"When I can. There are other priorities."

"Please try; I'm bored."

"We still need to talk about your future career plans," I said.

"Later."

"By the way," I said. "I'd like my castle Trump back."

"All right," she said. "It's in my room. Do you think I could get a set?"
she asked.

"Ask Oberon."

"You don't think he'd give me a set, do you?"

"Actually, I think he would. Shall we go get the card?"

"Certainly."

We said good day to Merlin, then went to her room. We passed a few minutes
in affectionate embrace, then I made my way toward the stables. When I got
there, I found that Cassandra had already saddled Bucephalus.

"Does he like apples?" she asked.

"Yes, very much."

"He is very well trained, then. He wouldn't accept one from my hand."

"Try now."

She did, and Bucephalus happily munched the apple.

We went to the Skunk and Paddle Tavern. It was located in one of the less
savory parts of town, and it was itself no great prize. Cassandra gave me a
quizzical look as we entered, as if to ask if I really knew what I was
doing.

We found my Lancer friend amid a crowd of drunken veterans. There were
perhaps fifteen of them. Even sober, they would have been far from an
effective combat team.  My friend appeared to be drunker than most.

With a disgusted sigh, I picked him up by the collar and dragged him to an
empty corner of the tavern.

"All right," I said. "The plan has changed. You're going to stay here, and
I'm going to go get your daughter."

"But...but you don't know what she looks like!"

"You're going to tell me."

"I don't know what she looks like; at least not until I sober up."

I went over to Cassandra, still dragging my drunk companion, and told her
I'd be back soon. I pulled him out into the street and looked around. Down
the road was a fountain.  Just the thing. I picked him up and carried him
to it, then threw him in. He sputtered and fell over, looking like he would
drown in a foot of water without assistance.

I took him by the hair and pulled his head out. When he stopped coughing, I
shoved him back in. Once I had repeated this procedure a few times, he was
sober enough to protest in actual words.

"Now tell me," I said, "what is your daughter's name?"

"Am...Amarylis."

"Now we're getting somewhere. What does she look like?"

"I, uh, think she has dark hair."

He wasn't sure of much else. I marched him back to the tavern, sat him
down, and announced to the drunken soldiers that they would not be going to
Tremere. They agreed that staying here would be better, as they would be
able to drink more.

Disgusted, I went over to Cassandra, who was talking to a tall dark
man. Next to them was a corpse with a dagger in its back.

"Ready?" I asked.  "Yes."

As she said her good-byes, I stepped out and went over to Bucephalus. She
came out a moment later and joined me.

"Who was that?" I asked.

"A friend of my father."

We mounted our respective mounts, with Cassandra riding Dapple and Darhyse
in rabbit form. We came upon a statue in the wilderness after about six
hours of travel through Shadow. It was located on a hillock, surrounded by
a thick tangle of wicked- looking thorns. We approached it slowly, alert
for ambushes. There were none. I took out Galantine and began hacking at
the thorn bushes while Cassandra watched my back. After I had gone a few
yards, she pointed out that the bushes were growing back behind me, at a
rate that was slow but quite noticeable. After a brief discussion, we
decided that I would cut a path with Galantine while she kept it open with
Darhyse.  About ten minutes later, I reached the statue. Someone had marked
it up; there were mystical-looking runes and symbols crudely written all
over it. I took out my journal and copied a couple down. Then I again drew
Galantine and, with a quick moulinette, cut off a tip of the left wing. The
statue rang with a clear, bell-like tone which quickly became unpleasant,
then faded away. With a shrug, I cut another piece off. This time, the
sound changed from a sour tone to a high screech before tapering off.  I
put both pieces in my pouch and was about to leave when I noticed that the
scar from the first cut had started to "bleed" a thick whitish fluid. I
emptied a water bottle and took a sample.  Then I left via the path that
Cassandra had kept open for me. Cassandra and I mounted Dapple and
Bucephalus, and I led us quickly into shadow. We hellrode for awhile,
taking an unpredictable and harrowing route to confuse any pursuit. At one
point I heard gunfire and cannon shot in a place where such weapons should
not work. I got out of there very quickly and continued quickly for another
twenty minutes before slowing down to a normal pace.

"Can we stop?" Cassandra asked. "My stomach hurts."

"No. There was gunfire where gunfire shouldn't be."

"What's gunfire?"

I explained what guns are. She had never heard of them.

"Your education seems a bit inadequate. Guns are a threat that you should
know about."

She sighed. "Yeah. A lot of people have told me that recently."

We reached the capitol city of Tremere a few hours later without
incident. It was a good-sized port overlooked by a castle; clearly a shadow
of Amber. Looking around the central bazaar, I noticed several groups of
people wearing dark glasses. Another group, clearly not friendly with the
first, wore badges with a cluster of red ribbons. We got lunch from a
pastry seller, then made our way through the bazaar.

"Malachai! Do you remember me?" I didn't. Before me stood a well-dressed
merchant who had been haggling with a customer as we rode by.

"Yes, ur -- "

"I'm Johaness. We did business a couple of weeks ago."

"Yes. How are you?"

"Very good. Say, do you have any more of that angar spice?"

"No, I'm not here on business this time."

"Will your caravan be back any time soon?"

"Possibly. If so, I will make sure we bring some spice."

"Good. Come to me first. I can give you an excellent price."

"I will. Say, could you tell me about the fellows in the sunglasses?"

"They're a new political party. They cover their eyes to shade their eyes
from the bright future ahead should they come into power. The people with
the red badges are their enemies -- royalists. Here, let me call one over."

He called out to a group of the men in glasses, asking for a copy of their
manifesto. One of them complied, chattering on about the coming
revolution. I looked over the manifesto. It claimed that the king was a
tyrant who oppressed the people. That seemed unlikely if they had the
freedom to print such a thing. They wanted to put their general, a man
named Norega, into power. The glowing biography claimed that he was an
experienced warrior who had fought with Caine and Gerard. He had apparently
captured a pirate ship single-handedly. I had never heard of him.

"Have you heard of a new religion? They worship a winged statue."

"Ah, yes. My niece is a worshipper."

"Are they related to the fellows in glasses?"

"No."

"What do you know of them?"

"Not much. I have exchanged letters with my niece, but I haven't seen
her. I heard they have some sort of church on a noble's estate -- the La
Munt family lands, I believe."

"Thanks. I'll be sure to get that spice you wanted if we come through
again."

"Excellent! Have a good day."

I conferred with Cassandra, then we went to a nearby restaurant for a
second lunch. We chose a low-class place selling primarily fish. It was
full of seamen.  We sat and ordered. One group nearby was talking about
some meeting coming up, three days hence at high noon. It sounded like all
of the merchant sailors in the city had been invited; many were coming in
just to be there. They seemed concerned whether they would be dealt with
fairly.

Excusing myself from Cassandra, I went over to the group of sailors I had
been listening to. I introduced myself and offered to buy them all a
drink. I became instantly popular.

"Are you a voyager here for the meeting?" they asked me.

"I have traveled many places, but I have just overheard you speaking about
this meeting."

"Didn't you get the albatross?"

"Albatross?"

"You weren't visited by an albatross on your ship?"

"I'm currently between ships," I said.

"Well, one of the Amberites -- Rhiannon -- sent messages to all of the
merchant marine.  They were carried by albatrosses bearing the crest of
Oberon."

"I see. I shall have to attend this meeting, then. Thanks and enjoy your
drinks."

They wished me well as I went back to Cassandra, who was just finishing her
meal.

We decided to find a higher-class place in order to discover the
whereabouts of the La Munt family lands. I paid for our drinks with a large
tip and received, in turn, information about the family. I thanked the
bartender and we left.

We discussed our plans, deciding that presenting ourselves as important
Amberites would be the best approach. Cassandra decided that she needed to
shop for higher-class clothing. We traveled from store to store, finally
completing her wardrobe around dark.  By then it was too late to try to
find the La Munt family.

We discovered the location of the best hotel in town and went there. As we
were waiting for someone to take our mounts, a well-dressed fellow rushed
out. He told us that there were no available rooms as the entire hotel had
been rented by an Amberite -- our cousin Rhiannon -- so he was unable to
provide space.

I drew myself up to my full height, which was several inches taller than
he. "Allow me to introduce myself. I am Captain Sir Malachai Tamberlin of
His Majesty's Own 2nd Imperial Lancers. This is Princess Cassandra,
daughter of Prince Corwin of Amber."

Horrified that he risked giving offense to someone important no matter what
he did, the poor fellow stood there stammering for a moment.

"Perhaps my own rooms would do?" he asked tentatively.

"That might be acceptable," I said haughtily. "May we see them?"

"Please allow me a few minutes to clear them out." He hurried off.

A groom, who introduced himself as Aaron, arrived to take our mounts. We
warned him to be careful with Dapple, and tipped him well.

Then I tried Rhiannon's Trump. It was blocked. Drat.

We were shown the manager's private suite of rooms, which were really quite
nice. I said they would do. After the bellman had left and Cassandra had
begun to unpack, I went into my own room, took out the container of white
fluid from the statue, separated the white liquid into two parts. Then I
Trumped Bleys.

"Wait a moment," he said. Behind him I could see some kind of arcane
laboratory, with bubbling tubes, thick tomes, and a chalkboard covered in
arcane symbols. Something on his worktable was on fire. He put it out.

"Hello, Malachai."

"Good day, Bleys. As you requested, I have a sample of a statue."

"Excellent. May I?"

I passed over one of the two chunks. "I also noticed that the place I cut
this from leaked a whitish fluid."

"Really? I haven't seen that before. You wouldn't have a sample?"

"I do." I gave him the bottle containing some of the fluid I had collected.

"Did you notice whether it healed afterward?"

"No. I didn't stick around."

He examined the chunk of statue. "Nice cut. What cut it?"

"A nice piece of steel."

"How nice?"

"Not a Pattern blade."

He smiled.

"Do you have any new information?" I asked.

"No, I'm afraid not."

"All right. I'll let you know if anything else comes up."

"See you." I ended the contact.

I went into the main room of the suite. Through the open door into
Cassandra's room, I noticed that she had put most of herself into some sort
of cabinet, presumably in the interest of exploration (her room was that of
a child). Only her legs and buttocks protruded from the cabinet. I quietly
took out Galantine, smacked her gently on the ass with the flat of the
sword, and left the suite. By the door was a bell with which to summon a
servant. I rang it.

A couple of minutes later, a servant arrived. I ordered a plate of cold
cuts and fruit with a bottle of wine. I opened the door to re-enter the
suite, only to see Cassandra picking up a bat. I closed the door and
waited, chuckling. She opened the door a minute later.

"I ordered a light dinner for us," I said.

"Thanks for the bump on the head."

"You bumped your head? I'm sorry."

"No, you're not."

"Truly, Cassandra, I apologize."

She looked at me in surprise.

I sighed. "I didn't grow up with the royal family and do not share their
aversion for apologies."

A moment later, dinner arrived. We ate, and Cassandra said that she was
tired and would like to go to sleep. I said goodnight and went back into my
room. I sat at the very nice wooden desk and caught up on this
journal. Good night.

* * *

I had no idea Cassandra could be so annoying. Her talent for getting into
trouble is astonishing. I'm glad she was pretending -- or at least I hope
she was pretending.

I awoke to the sound of a servant bringing a breakfast cart into the main
room. It smelled quite good. I stretched, got up, and went over to the
servant.

"Has Rhiannon returned?"

"Who?" he asked.

"The lady who has reserved most of this hotel?"

"I'm sorry, but I was hired last night. This place is understaffed."

"Might you go and find out?"

"Of course, sir. With pleasure." He left.

By that time Cassandra had gotten up, holding Darhyse, in rabbit form, by
the ears.  While we ate, we discussed our plan.

"Excuse me," she said, "but I don't understand why you're trying to find a
girl you don't know."

"Her name is Amarylis. I told an old friend that I would attempt to find
her, and I intend to do so if I can. At the same time, I wish to find out
more about these statues that are appearing in Shadow closer and closer to
Amber."

"All right," she said. "I'm not sure it's a good idea to announce our
intentions."

"I'm not very good at this political stuff. What do you suggest?"

"Perhaps if I posed as a little girl, I could infiltrate the cult."

"A splendid idea. Would you suggest that we approach this together or
separately?"

"Together."

"Then how are we to present ourselves?"

"Maybe I could be the bratty kid you're keeping an eye on as a favor to my
dad?"

"Then you could wander off -- "

"And get into stuff, maybe find something out. Maybe even pretend to join
the cult."

"How old should you pretend to be?"

"Nine or ten."

"But if you are going to join the cult, you should be older than that. What
about sixteen or so?"

"No. Then I'd have to act too much like a grown up and people wouldn't let
me get away with stuff."

"I would still suggest a little older than ten."

"All right. I'd also suggest that we investigate things other than just the
cult. You could pose as an official from Amber, called to look into rumors
of serious unrest."

"All right."

As we finished eating, the servant who had delivered our breakfast
returned. He told us that Rhiannon was still not in the hotel. No
surprise. He cleaned up the breakfast dishes and I tipped him.

I took out Rhiannon's Trump and concentrated on it. This time, it wasn't
blocked, but I received a nauseous feeling, as if Rhiannon had a hangover
so bad that she could do nothing but cope with it. I ended the contact
quickly, preferring not to worsen her suffering. I figured she couldn't
converse with me in that state anyway, and I could call her later.

 We got dressed. Cassandra put her hair in pigtails and wore a very
childlike dress which she had apparently been keeping in her saddlebags for
just such an occasion. In the lobby, I asked at the desk for our mounts to
be brought out front. I also asked whether it would be possible to hire a
guide who knew the city well. The manager told me that a guide would be
available in just a few minutes. Cassandra and I went into the lounge,
where she began to act like a bratty princess, getting into everyone's
business. A few minutes later, a well-dressed fellow with wild, unkempt
hair came walking up.

"Excuse me," he said, "are you Sir Malachai?"

"Yes."

"I am Sir Erik. I will be your guide."

"Excellent. Tell me, Sir Erik, how did you attain knighthood?"

"Oh, a minor matter of saving a village from destruction."

"I see. And you know Tremere very well?"

"Quite well."

Cassandra came up to us, pursued by two of the staff, who drew themselves
up to attention upon seeing me.

"Who's that?" she asked in her best bratty tone.

"Cassandra," I said, "this is our guide, Sir Erik. Erik, this is Princess
Cassandra."

"I don't like him," she yelled. "He's ugly. Get a new guide."

"No, Cassandra," I said. "Erik is our guide."

"Get a new guide!" she repeated.

"No, Cassandra."

"I hate you! I want my daddy!" She pouted prettily. I sighed, glad she was
only acting.  Erik motioned to one of the staff, who quickly brought him a
drink.

"I want a drink for me!" shouted Cassandra.

"My dear," he said, "this is for you." He tossed it back.

"I am interested in various newer sources of power in Tremere," I said to
Erik.

"You mean democrats or royalists?"

"Both."

Cassandra, bored, went back to tormenting the hotel staff.

"I am familiar with them," Erik said. "Do you wish to visit with their
leadership?"

"Yes. The royalists first, I suppose."

A servant told us that our animals were ready for us out front. I collected
Cassandra and we made our way to the entryway. A groom led out Bucephalus
and Dapple, both looking immaculate. The groom, however, was not in the
best shape, displaying a various claw marks and ripped clothing. I tried to
tip him well, but he refused.

"Do you have a mount?" I asked Erik.

He whistled, and within moments a mule came trotting around a corner,
stopping before Erik. "That's funny," he said. "the last time I did that I
got a grey charger."

We all mounted our animals.

"Now we can go!" said Cassandra.

"Thank you, Princess," I replied. She preened.

"Lead on, Sir," I said to Erik.

We proceeded to the headquarters of the loyalists, where we had a pleasant
visit with their leader -- a large man named Hubert Infrees, who won
Cassandra's approval by giving her a lollipop. Later, went to the
headquarters of the opposition, where we met with an unpleasant man named
Jeffrey Hardice. He refused to have anything to do with us, since we were
from Amber and therefore "royalists."  We left quickly and traveled to the
La Munt estate, arriving in the late afternoon. Just before we got there I
again tried Rhiannon's Trump. I found that almost no time had passed for
her in the several hours since I'd last attempted to get in touch with
her. I broke off quickly.

At the entrance to the estate, Erik bribed a guard, persuading him to send
a message to the main house. Soon, we got a message that someone was on his
way to lead us in.  While we waited, I chatted with Erik.

"What did you do before you were a guide?" I asked.

"I was a soldier, but I have since retired. I wasn't able to find any good
fights."

"Have you traveled in Shadow?"

"No. I've spent my life in Tremere."

"Perhaps that's why you couldn't find any good fights."

"Perhaps," he said.

Shortly thereafter, following an altercation in which Cassandra tormented
the guard, a well-dressed gentleman rode up to meet with us.

"I am the Duke's third son, Karl," he said. "What is your business here?"

"It is a pleasure to meet you, Sir," I said. "I am Captain Sir Malachai
Tamberlin of His Majesty Oberon's Own 2nd Imperial Lancers. This is
Princess Cassandra, daughter of Prince Corwin of Amber. We are here in the
hope that we might speak with your father and with the worshipers of the
winged statue -- whom we are told have been given sanctuary here."

"I will speak with the leaders of the statue worshipers on your
behalf. They may be available later this evening. In the meantime, would
you like to come up the castle and have dinner?"

"Yes, thank you."

We followed him to the castle. Erik excused himself and left to conduct
some business or other. While we were shown to a big open room lit by smoky
candles. Dogs barked and ran about eating scraps off the floor. There were
many guests, many of whom were loud and boisterous. Karl went off to make
arrangements, bidding us to have a seat.

"I don't like it here," said Cassandra. "It smells. I want to go."

"We must stay until our business is done."

"I don't like you," she said, and wandered off.

Figuring that the people here were at much greater risk from her than she
was from them, I shrugged and made my way over to one of the tables. I sat
down and introduced myself to the others in the area, who seemed quite
impressed by my rank. We chatted about events in Amber and the effects of
the blockade. After a few minutes, I received a Trump call.

"Yes?" I said silently. It was Cassandra.

"I've been to the kitchen," she said. "It is very dirty. I suggest that you
not eat the food."

"Thanks for the warning," I said. "I'll be careful."

She signed off. A half hour later, as I was speaking with two nobleman's
nieces about my travels, I heard a commotion, as if many people were
running. I looked up to see Cassandra sliding into the hall, covered in
what looked like pastry filling. I excused myself with a sigh and headed in
her direction. Cassandra got up and ran toward me with several servants in
hot pursuit. She stopped as she reached me and hid behind my leg. The
servants stopped before me, unsure of what to do.

"I apologize for any inconvenience," I said. "Has she caused any harm?"

"I didn't do anything," Cassandra shouted. "They tried to hurt me!"

"This young...er -- lady -- has disrupted dinner. She has also caused the
death of a servant."

"It wasn't my fault," she said. "He tried to grab me and I kicked him. I
guess I kicked him really hard."

I sighed and counted silently to ten. "In that case," I said, "we must
speak with the head of the house and make reparations."

We were brought to the head table, where we were introduced to a toothless
old fellow who was, apparently, the Duke. One of the servants began to
explain the situation.

"Killed by a little girl?" said the Duke incredulously. Cassandra was
peeking out from behind my leg, doing her best imitation of a harmless
cherub. "What an idiot! Why, in my day we didn't have such pathetic
servants. You're fired! You're all fired. Come here little girl."

Cassandra went over and sat on the Duke's lap. He patted her on the head
and gave her some candy.

"I like him," Cassandra said. "He's nice." She stuck her tongue out at the
servants. They backed away, looking stricken.

"Sir," I said, "if we should make some payment to the family of the man who
was killed..."

"Nonsense," he said. "Any servant stupid enough to be killed by a little
girl deserves what he gets. I've never heard of such a thing. Why, at the
battle of Barkun Hill, we..."  He launched into an incoherent story of some
forgotten day of glory.

Places were made for us at the Duke's table, and we sat down. Most of the
other guests ignored the Duke, so we did also. They were talking about
problems with shipping caused by the blockade. They were all losing money
on cargoes sitting in warehouses.  We were fed a variety of fatty meat
dishes and boiled vegetables. Cassandra was right -- it wasn't very
appetizing. I ate sparingly of the bits that didn't look like they would
make me sick. She fed most of it to her bunny.

Soon, Cassandra wandered off, looking, no doubt, for more trouble. She
found it rather quickly. A few minutes later Karl came to me.

"Your young lady has fallen through the hole in the castle."

"The hole?"

"Yes, a collapsing rock left a hole in the side of the castle. We posted
guards but she hamstrung one of them and ran through the hole. She appears
to have fallen into the sea."

I sighed. "I suppose we should go get her."

"She may not have survived."

"We can only hope."

He raised an eyebrow. "Whom did you say you were looking after her for?"

"Prince Corwin."

"I see. I'll go get some ropes."

I followed him as he went to a guardroom, got long coil of stout rope, and
went down a hallway. Down the hall, we heard Cassandra.

"I want my bunny," she said in her most imperious tone. "Go get it." Then
we heard a man scream. "Oh, boy," she said, "He must be playing with the
black thing."

We hurried down the hallway, finding Cassandra standing at a ledge by
herself.

"Malachai," she said, "my bunny is down there."

"Cassandra, where is the guard?"

"I sent him down to get my bunny."

I looked over the edge. It led straight down to the water, perhaps a
hundred feet below.  I spotted several large, nasty-looking creatures
swimming in a circle.

"Cassandra," I said, "I think he's dead."

"He's playing with the black thing."

"The black thing ate him, Cassandra."

"Oops. I didn't like him anyway. He touched me."

"That's not a reason to kill someone."

"I want my bunny. Go get it."

"I think your bunny will get back by itself," I said.

She looked doubtful.

"If your bunny isn't back by tomorrow, I'll make sure that it gets
recovered."

"I suppose."

By that time Karl was edging back down the hallway.

"He's looking at me funny," Cassandra said. "Make him stop."

"I think he might be afraid of you Cassandra."

"Why?"

"Because you keep killing people."

"Well, I didn't mean to. It's not my fault."

"Please be careful with the people here. They're rather delicate."

"Guards aren't supposed to be delicate. That's stupid. What a bunch of pansies!"

At that point Erik arrived. He clapped Karl on the back. "Ah, my good
friend. I'm glad to see you." He looked at me. "I followed your trail past
the hamstrung guard and here you are."

"Cassandra has been busy," I said.

"Yes, of course she has."

"I lost my bunny," said Cassandra, pointing out over the cliff. "Go get it."

"I'll see to it at once," he said.

"Thank you," she said, sticking her tongue out at me.

"I've arranged the interview you wanted," Erik said. "Shall we go?"

"I don't want to stay here," Cassandra said. "I want to go home now."

"We can't leave now," I said.

"Why not?"

"We have business to attend to."

"But I don't want to go to some stupid meeting. You're boring."

"We can't go until afterward, Cassandra."

"I'm gonna tell my father."

"It's a deal," I said.

She stuck out her tongue at me again. "All right, I guess I'd better go
with you." She looked at Erik. "Go get my bunny."

"I will see to it as soon as I get you to the meeting," he said.

"Good."

We followed Erik through several corridors to a nicely made wooden door. He
opened it and gestured inward. Inside was a man in a grey robe sitting at a
desk. We went in.  The door closed behind us. Hmm.  "May I help you?" said
the man in grey.

"We wish to see a representative of the worshippers of the winged statue,"
I said.

"Any particular person?" he asked.

"Preferably someone higher up in the hierarchy."

Cassandra started to make what was probably some annoying comment, but made
no sound. With a surprised look on her face, she touched my arm and pointed
to her throat.

I patted her on the head. "I'll deal with your problem in a moment."

"Who specifically do you wish to see?" asked the man in grey.

"Perhaps you could describe the hierarchy of your faith so that I might
select the appropriate person?" I said to the man in grey.

"I'd prefer not to."

Cassandra, clearly very angry at being magically silenced, tried to jump up
on the desk.  When she got the top, she fell through its surface as if it
wasn't there. We heard thumps from inside the desk.

"Is she all right?" I asked.

"Oh, yes."

"Good. Nice trick, that."

"Whom do you wish to reach?"

"I've been asked to speak with an initiate of your religion by her
father. Her name is Amaryllis."

"I will attempt to reach her, if you would like to wait." He gestured to a
few chairs at one side of the room.  I sat down. The man in grey sat there
doing nothing. I shrugged and removed my Trump deck. Once again, I
attempted to contact Rhiannon. There was a block which felt local, as if
the room itself were stopping the Trump contact. I decided to wait for
awhile.  After a few minutes, I noticed that the man did not seem to be
moving at all. As I got up to check on him, I heard a knock at the door. I
opened it, finding -- to my surprise -- Rivka, holding Darhyse in bunny
form.

"Malachai," she said. "What are you doing here?"

"I was about to ask you the same question. But first I need to speak with
this gentleman over here."

I went over to the desk. On closer examination, the man in grey, who was
still unmoving, appeared to have no lower torso. He was imbedded in the
desk which contained Cassandra.

"Hello," I said. No response. I snapped my fingers in front of his face. No
response. I touched his shoulder. He felt like solid stone.

"What's going on?" asked Rivka.

"Cassandra is in this desk," I said. "This person was animated a few
minutes ago, but appears to have turned to stone."

"In the desk? How?"

"Magic."

I moved around behind the desk. There were a normal-looking set of drawers
in it. I pulled them out; they were empty. I drew Galantine and used her to
shear off the tip of one corner of the desk. I was afraid to do more
because I didn't want to hit Cassandra.  Meanwhile Rivka grabbed one end of
the desk and heaved upward. She was clearly straining, but the desk moved
up only a fraction of an inch. I tried helping her, but my strength
appeared to make no difference whatsoever. Rivka was clearly much stronger
than me.

"Look under the desk," she said. "I'll hold it up."

I got down and looked. "No good," I said. "It just extends down into the
floor." She let it down.

Using Galantine, I tried cutting into the floor next to the desk. It cut
fairly easily, but the desk continued downward for at least a foot;
possibly much further. Rivka examined the man in grey. Frustrated, she
struck his head clean off. He appeared to be made of stone.

"Darhyse," I said. "Why don't you turn into a cat." Quickly, the huge
Sha'um filled one corner of the room. "I think we should take the top off
of the desk. You'd be better at that than me."

With a smile, Darhyse extended her claws and made short work of the
desk-top. Inside, Cassandra crouched in her now-filthy dress. She jumped
out of the desk and hugged Darhyse.

"Can you speak?" I asked.

She tried, but no sound emerged from her lips. She shook her head.

"Cassandra, I believe I owe you an apology. I fell too much into my role of
an adult dealing with an annoying brat."

She gave me a hug.

"I think we should find Erik," I said.

Cassandra nodded.

"Who's Erik?" asked Rivka.

"I don't have time to explain right now," I said. "He's the one who led us
to this room.  He may have set this up as a trap. Darhyse, can you follow
Erik's trail?"

She nodded.

"Then lead on, please."

Darhyse led us into the corridor and through the castle, finally bringing
us to the ledge Cassandra had fallen from earlier. There were a set of
ropes well secured to pitons. They led downward. Looking over the edge, we
saw Erik and six other men dressed in the uniform of the castle guard
making their way down. I suspected they were making their escape to some
small craft hidden in a cave or cleft.

"Erik!" I shouted.

He looked up. "Malachai! Hello!"

"What are you doing down there?"

"Getting Cassandra's stuffed rabbit."

I hesitated. Could I have misjudged him? "We have the bunny," I shouted. "I
told you it would make its way back on its own."

I saw a look of surprise appear on his face far below.

"All right," he said. "We'll be up in a half hour or so."

They began to ascend, slowly. We settled in for a wait.  "Cassandra," I
said, "is this course of action acceptable to you?"

She nodded, looking like she had more to say. I reached into my pocket,
removing my journal and a pen. I ripped out a blank page and handed her the
pen.

"You think Erik set us up?" she wrote.

"I suspect it."

She nodded.

I turned to Rivka. "You don't have any way to break the spell on
Cassandra?" I asked her.

"No," she said. "I'm just a simple servant."

I smiled. "Not likely."

She smiled back. "How do you intend to explain my presence here?"

"Perhaps you are a nanny I brought in to look after Cassandra."

"That works. What do you think, Cassandra?"

She nodded.

"Speaking of your presence here," I said, "How did you come to be in
Tremere?"

"Is that where this is? Darhyse brought me."

"From where?" Cassandra wrote, clearly interested.

"Someplace where your father's people almost decided to kill me."

"You were in Pearl?" I asked.

"Yes; I think that's what they called it."

"How?"

"Titania sent me there because she thought they'd kill me so she wouldn't
have to give something back to me."

"Who is Titania?" I asked.

"The Queen of Faerie. How adult should I look in order to be Cassandra's
nanny?"

I remembered that Rivka could shapeshift. Right now she looked the way she
usually does: about fifteen. "A few years older would be best," I said.

As we watched, she quickly changed her features until she appeared to be
about eighteen, although still small and finely-boned.

Then I remembered something that might break the spell on Cassandra. A long
time ago, Fiona taught me a few simple spells. I do not use them often, in
part because I don't think of myself as a sorcerer and in part to keep my
abilities hidden. One of the spells was designed to disrupt magical
effects. I uttered it in Cassandra's direction.

"I can talk!" she said, a look of surprise on her face. She hugged me.

"Greetings," said Erik. I looked over the cliff -- he was only a few feet
below. The other castle guardsmen were just below him.

I took him by a wrist and helped him up. He seemed oddly light for a man of
his size. I started to speak to him, but he had turned to help the other
men. I assisted, ready to draw my sword at the first sign of treachery.

When they were all up, I took Erik by the shoulder. "I'd like to speak with
you privately," I said. We walked a little way down the corridor. "That
room you took us to was some sort of trap."

"What?" he said. "How?"

I told him of what had happened in the room, changing the manner of Rivka's
arrival.

"This is outrageous!" he said.

"To be frank, Erik, I must tell you that I suspect you of some complicity
in this matter." I stood ready to fight him if he chose to attack.

"I understand completely. Were I you, I would suspect me. I can only assure
you that I am innocent of any malicious action or intent."

"Then why did you lead us to the meeting and then disappear?"

"That was the agreement. The cultists would speak only to you and
Cassandra. I was not of sufficient rank, or so they said."

I was suspicious, but decided to give him a chance to redeem
himself. "Let's go talk to Karl."

"An excellent idea. One moment -- " He turned to a guardsman standing at
the entrance to the hallway. "Give me your sword, please." The guardsman
complied.

Another guardsman looked suspicious. "I thought you were forbidden from
carrying a sword anymore," he said.

Erik looked back at him, a dangerous gleam in his eye. "And?"

The guard backed away. "Just inquiring."

"Good." Erik motioned for me to proceed.

"No," I said. "After you."

"Very well." He made his way down the corridor.  I made sure that Cassandra
and Rivka were behind me, then followed. Erik seemed to know his way
through the castle, although not perfectly. After a few minutes and one
wrong turn, we found ourselves in front of a stone door.

"This is Karl's chamber," Eric said. There was no handle, although there
was a small hammer hung by the door, presumably for knocking.

"Shall we be polite," I asked, "or just burst in?"

Cassandra tried pushing it open, but it was barred. I took the hammer down
from the wall and banged on it. There was no answer.

"Give me the hammer," Cassandra said. I complied. She swung it, hard, at
the lower part of the door. We heard a dull clang from the other side of
the door, as if a hinge had broken, but it stayed shut. I took the hammer
from Cassandra and rapped sharply on the top part of the door, where the
upper hinge would be. The door swung open.

Before us lay Karl, clutching his abdomen. There was a piece of metal
protruding from his belly, and his shirt was stained with blood. The metal
fragment appeared to be part of the hinge. I looked at the door and
ascertained that it was from the lower hinge, which Cassandra had knocked
loose.

I looked at her with one eyebrow raised. She shrugged. I went over to Karl
and, taking him by both arms from behind, picked him up and put him in a
chair. His wound did not appear serious.

"Put a bandage on him, won't you Erik?" I said.

"You want to be nice to him?"

"I don't want him dying quite yet."

"Good point." He took a shirt from the wardrobe and ripped it to shreds. He
pulled the metal shard roughly out of Karl's belly and then wrapped the
bits of shirt around his torso.

"All right, Karl," I said. "Why don't you tell us about it?"

"They'll kill me."

"We'll kill you," Cassandra said.

He looked at her and gave her an hysterical giggle.  Clearly, he was more
afraid of them.

We discussed various methods of torture. Erik looked worried, but not
enough to crack.

"Let me put it this way," said Erik, brandishing his weapon. "I have a
sword." Karl fainted.

"Just who the hell are you, anyway?" I said.

"I am Sir Erik."

"Oh, really?" said Cassandra.

"Really. I am Sir Erik."

"Perhaps we could have some of the highlights of your nefarious career," I
said.

He began a story of high adventure about how he had tricked Caine out of
some treasure. It quickly became obvious that he was spinning blarney.

"The real story," I said.

He looked me in the eye. "All right. I'm really good. They banned me from
carrying a sword so that others will have a fair shot."

I nodded.  We woke up Erik. By then he was ready to talk. In fact, he
seemed incapable of silence.  In whining, sniveling tones, he told us of
how he had conspired with the statue worshippers to use the different
political factions, which they controlled, to overthrow the government. The
opposition party would assassinate the king. Shortly thereafter, they would
be destroyed by the royalists. The statue worshippers would step in to
restore order. Karl would assume the throne after killing his father and
brothers.  Apparently, this plot was well advanced, ready to go in a day or
two. The cult's headquarters was on the La Munt lands, both in this castle
and in another building nearby.

While he continued to blather, I once again tried Rhiannon's Trump, hoping
to enlist her aide in protecting the king. Apparently the whole castle was
under some sort of Trump block.

"How much do you like the king, Erik?" I asked.

"He's all right," he said, "but hardly an inspired monarch. Why?"

"I was wondering whether we should rush to protect him or attack the
cultists now."

"If we eliminate the cult leaders, he should be safe enough."

"Very well. I think we should attack."

The others agreed. We discussed various means of assault, eventually
deciding that Rivka, Erik, and I would attack the other building while
Cassandra, Dapple, and Darhyse attacked the cultists in this castle. Rivka
would take the form of a Sha'um for the fight.

About that time, Dapple and Bucephalus arrived. Bucephalus had blood on his
bridle and hooves. They stood ready. We tied up Karl. Cassandra, we
decided, would wait ten minutes for us to get into position, then attack.
"Remember," I told her. "You have my Trump. It should work locally."

We tried the Trump. It did indeed work. We shook hands all around and I
hugged Cassandra. Then Rivka, Erik, Bucephalus and I made our way out into
the corridor.  Soon we found ourselves outside the castle. About a hundred
yards away was the outbuilding that was the other cult headquarters. It was
a long single-story building.

Erik whistled. Within moments, his donkey arrived. It was chewing
contentedly on what looked like a human arm.

"I have the sudden urge to shout something," said Erik.

"How about, 'tally ho?'" I said.

"Very well. Tally ho!" He charged toward the building at top donkey
speed.

# Malachai's Journal vol. 3

Rivka and I parted company. I tried Bleys' Trump. Explaining that he was
expecting another call he asked if he might call me later, in the
evening. I agreed and ended the connection.  I found Erik, who was chatting
amiably with a serving-woman. "Ahem," I said.  He pulled himself away, not
without reluctance. "Yes?"

"Are you game for a little expedition?"

"Always."

We headed out into shadow. As we traveled, I explained a few things about
shadow travel, Pattern, and the like. Despite his previous adventures with
Corwin and Caine, Erik was almost entirely ignorant of how things work. I
tried to remedy this problem.  In a short time, we were at the statue of
Gwen I had previously cut a couple of chunks out of. It was no longer
surrounded by a patch of briers. The mystical graffiti were still there,
however. I rode up to the statue, dismounted, and stepped up to the
statue. I drew Bleys' Pattern blade. Then I attempted to strike off the
head. There was a red flash as the eyes began to open.  Sometime later, I
woke up with a terrible headache. Erik sat next to me, looking concerned.
"Had a nice nap?" he asked.  "Not very restful," I said. "What happened?"

"You tried to cut the statue, it opened its eyes, and you fell down. I got
you out and brought you here." We were in some kind of cottage. "Then I
went to get the sword. It was blown a few hundred yards away."

I looked at my right hand. "I'm lucky it didn't break my hand."

"Yes. Anyway, you've been asleep for two days."

"That long? We have to get back; we're late."

We packed up and headed back. I brought us slowly through Shadow, since I
was tired and had an awful headache. We got back to Tremere a few hours
later and headed toward the ship captain's meeting. It was evening. I tried
Rhiannon's Trump as we approached. It was blocked. Soon we arrived at the
guild hall, a big square building with a single floor. There were two
guards standing before the main entrance. Near the door was a pile of
corpses; apparently they had attempted to crash the party.  A small woman
was standing before them. Her hair was on fire.  "Rivka?" I asked.  "Yes?"
she said.  "I'm glad you're here."

"Hello, Malachai."

"I apologize for missing our meeting. What have you been doing?"

"I was good," she said. "I just started a brawl -- I didn't kill anyone,
and I didn't burn down any buildings."

"I'm glad to hear that."

I spoke with the guards. I knew them; these fellows had traveled often to
Amber and frequented the same bars as the Lancers. They told me that the
meeting was almost over. Rhiannon was there. I could go speak with her in
few minutes when the meeting was done and some of the crowd cleared
out. Shortly thereafter, a couple of hundred merchant officers came out,
actively discussing politics and trade. Apparently, they had found the
meeting satisfactory. I went into the building, where a few other captains
were in heated debate. I asked about Rhiannon and was told that she had
left. Damn. I tried her Trump again. No response. Double damn.  I spoke
with some of the captains. Apparently, Rhiannon had not made any specific
promises, but had pledged to make their position known and attempt to
resolve the blockade. Most of them found that acceptable. They invited me
to go drinking with them at a nearby tavern.

I made excuses and went to speak with Rivka. "Are you ready to go?"

"Lead on, Your Highness Prince nephew in law."

"Actually, as far as I know my only actual rank is Captain." Rivka smirked.
We stepped back outside. Erik was feeding the last of the corpses to his
donkey.  "How exactly do you get these creatures, anyway?" Rivka asked.
Erik related a long story of how he, Gerard, and Corwin had sailed near the
castle of an evil sorceress. All the crew had been put to sleep by magic
except them. They had engaged in a battle with the sorceress. Corwin had
gone off to rescue a bevy of imprisoned maidens. Just as Gerard crushed the
sorceress, she had cursed Erik to be forever pursued by horrid
beasts. Later, Erik had gotten another mage to modify the curse so that a
riding animal, appropriate to the current setting, would appear whenever he
whistled.  "Yeah, right," said Rivka. "Can we get going now?"

We proceeded through shadow to the desert shadow of Tulaine, near the
walled city called Kosan. At the edge of foothills leading to the Black
Mountains, we came to Tazik's smithy.

There was an argument in progress. As we approached, we saw that Tazik was
arguing with an older man. She was yelling, telling him that she does not
take commissions on weapons without seeing the weapon bearer. She accused
him of treating her like a common smith. Several times she struck him. He
allowed her to do so, but turned skillfully so that she struck parts that
were not vital. I know how hard Tazik can hit, but he showed no sign of
injury. He backed away and Tazik lost interest.  As he walked past, he
grinned at me. "Good luck in there," he said.  "Do I know you?" I asked.
"Not yet." He turned to Rivka. "Hello," he said to her. "I see you've
picked better company."

"Yes," she said. "Thanks for the help."

He bowed. Turning, he appeared to step into a hole in the fabric of space
that opened just for him. Interesting.  "Who was that?" I asked Rivka.  "A
friend of Corwin's."

Tazik was muttering under her breath. "Sending a lackey to me. May the gods
rip out their gizzards."

"Who?" I asked her.  "I don't know. He tried to order two swords, but they
weren't for him. How can I make a sword for someone I've never even met?"

"It was foolish to expect that you might," I said.

"What do you want?"

"I have some bad news."

"What?"

I put a hand on Galantine's hilt. "Remember how you said this blade would
be nearly invulnerable?"

Her eyes narrowed. "What happened?"

I showed her. She sighed and told me to come back in two days. I agreed and
handed her the sword. After a quick conference with the others, we decided
to go to Amber. I selected my card of the castle, and we all Trumped
through.  "Hey, Malachai," said Rivka, pointing to my card, "could you get
me one of those?"

"I'll try to get you a deck, but I can't promise anything."

"OK."

Rivka said she would get Erik settled in at the castle and we agreed to
meet for lunch. I mounted Bucephalus and we headed into town, toward
Serena's house. Since Bucephalus knew the way, while I rode I took out
Bleys' Trump and gave him a call. When he answered he was seated at a
formal table. Behind him were Fiona and Corwin, both with bandaged right
hands. Servants were cutting their food for them.  I explained why I hadn't
called earlier, and said that he wouldn't make that mistake himself. "I
would like Aundantrik back," he said.  "That is your sword's name?" I
said. "Here it is." I passed the weapon through.  He seemed pleased to
again be holding it. "Do you mind if I bring your father into the
conversation?"

"My...?" I started to say, as Corwin joined the connection by placing a
hand on Bleys's shoulder.  "Malachai," he said. "I have recognized you
formally as my son," he said.  "I see," I said. "I'm honored."

He smiled. "I have heard that you have been experimenting with Gwen
statues. Do not try to use one as a Trump."

"You mean touching a statue and concentrating?"

"Yes. It burned my hand rather severely; Fiona's also. The healing talisman
Mikail gave Cassandra made it worse."

"Interesting. I shall avoid that. To change the subject -- I've lost a
Sha'um and was wondering if you know how to find one."

"Ask Cassandra."

"A different Sha'um."

"Oh, that's right. Serena imprinted on one."

"Dapple."

"That was her name. I'd suggest you ask Serena."

"All right."

"Fiona would like join in," Bleys said. "She has a question for you."

Fiona did so as Corwin removed himself. "Since you are Corwin's eldest
son," she said, "and Benedict and Corwin have turned it down, you are next
in line. I believe it is time for a regent to take over in Oberon's
absence. Will you take it?"

I was shocked.

"I'm shocked," I said. Me? Take the throne of Amber? I could not imagine
it. "I do not feel qualified to act in His Majesty's stead," I said after a
pause.  "In that case," she said, "I am next in line and am quite willing
to accept the responsibility. You have no objections?"

Even if I did I would not be so foolish as to stand between Fiona and her
ambition. "No," I said, "I do not."

"Good." She smiled briefly and pulled out of the connection.  "Has she
asked Merlin?" I asked Bleys. "He would come after me."

"I don't believe so, but it is well known that he left Chaos to avoid the
throne."

"Do you mind if I speak with him about this?"

"No; I'm not in line."

We said good-bye and I ended the connection. The throne of Amber? Unicorn!
I would not be so foolish as to place myself in position for all of my
aunts and uncles to control me. I quite fond of my free will, thank you.
Shortly, I arrived at Serena's. She was engaged with some courtiers. I
waited for her in another room, doing what I could to correct my
appearance. She arrived with a guard I didn't recognize. She thanked him
formally and asked him to wait at the door and keep others out. When the
door closed she threw herself into my arms.

"I only have an hour," she told me. "The guard isn't one of mine -- he's
part of an honor guard."

"We'll have to be quiet, then," I said.  Some time later, she carefully
rearranged her formal clothing. "Can you join me for dinner?"

"Of course."

"It will be formal and probably quite boring."

"Will you be there?"

"Yes."

"Then it won't be boring."

She smiled and gave me a kiss on the cheek. As she started out, my
conscience got the better of me. "Uh, Serena?"

"Yes?"

"I sort of lost Dapple."

"You mean you didn't send her back to me?"

"Not exactly. She's back?"

"Yes."

"Good."

She hurried out. Relieved, I went back to the castle and took a bath. I
caught up on this journal, finishing the second volume and beginning the
third. Things are getting busy; I go longer between times that I can
write and there is more to say. Truly, these are interesting times.

Later that morning, I took a stroll around the castle. There were not many
guards around, and those were not the best. Benedict apparently had most of
them off somewhere, training.  At lunch, the only family members present
were Llewella, seated at high table, and Rivka (if she counts)
serving. There were some ambassadors and courtiers, and no one else. I said
hello to Llewella, who gave me the usual blank stare. I sat by myself.

Rivka came over and I ordered one of Merlin's special omelets. Erik came in
and ordered one for himself. We discussed our course of action with regard
to recovering Rivka's mother. Zack, apparently, was someone who knew
something about Faerie. Unfortunately, he hadn't been available by Trump
recently.  "Tell me about Faerie," I asked Rivka. "Have you been there?"

 "I was with her when Clarissa went there. I was permitted to escape. She's
still there, as far as I know."

"What's it like?"

"Strange. I don't know all the rules, but I do know that you shouldn't eat,
drink, or accept gifts."

"It occurs to me," I said, "that Ivy DeJulian -- one of those who Mikail
found in the Sea of Chance -- looked rather elfin. Do you know where she
ended up?"

"Yes," Rivka said. "With Zack."

"How frustrating." Then I had an idea: Merlin, with his powers, might be
good at finding people in Shadow. "I may know someone who could find either
Zack or Ivy. Let me see what I can do."

We agreed to meet later. After lunch, I found a private section of castle
and fished out my Trumps. They've been seeing a lot of use lately. First, I
took out Benedict's card. It was blocked. I wondered if Corwin might have a
Trump of Merlin. I tried contacting him. When he answered, he was still at
the table he had been at when last I spoke with him. Apparently, time
flowed slowly there relative to Amber.  "Hello," I said. "Do you have any
way to contact Merlin?"

"Yes."

"Could you get him in touch with me?"

"Why don't you pull me through?"

I did so. "I didn't want Fiona to know that I have a Trump of Merlin," he
said.  "May I borrow it?" I asked.  He pull a thick deck of Trumps from his
belt pouch and thumbed through them. I noticed that one of the cards bore
the likeness of Dara. I felt a wave of disgust run down my spine. He came
to Merlin's Trump, removed it from the deck, and handed it to me.
"Thanks," I said.  "Is there anyone else in the castle?"

"Only Llewella."

"I said anyone, not anything," he said with uncharacteristic vehemence.  "I
didn't know you held her in such low regard," I said.  He shrugged. "I need
to spend a little while here, to keep Fiona from guessing."

"I have some time," I said.  We took a walk in the castle garden. We
chatted about various matters. He didn't want to discuss much in the way of
specifics, deflecting direct inquiries deftly.  I tried a different
tack. "Cassandra and I sparred for a while the other day. I was impressed
by her abilities. I could use some improvement in fencing skill. I can cope
with shadowites, but since joining the family the opposition has become
tougher."

"Her teacher is busy right now, but maybe I could introduce you to him
sometime."

"I would appreciate that."

"I also think that you should try walking my Pattern."

"I am concerned about what would happen if you turn out not to be my
father."

"I could be there to help, and you're not stupid enough to try to walk it
backward. I don't think you would be in any real danger."

I thought for a moment. "All right."

"Good. As an experiment, I'd like to have you try shifting shadow near
Pearl sometime, before you walk my Pattern."

"I suppose I could give it a try."

"I should be getting back," he said. "Why don't you step away so you're not
in view when I Trump out?"

"All right. Good-bye." I walked around behind a shrub. I took out Merlin's
card. The back of it was a strange smiling face that somehow appeared to
have depth. I looked at the face of the card and concentrated. It was a
reach, and it took me several minutes to get through.  "Yes?"

"It's me," I said. Merlin was standing before a yellow pavilion, near a
great tree, which I took to be Ygg. "How are you?" I asked.  "I am doing
interestingly," he said.  "That's good, I think. Have you spoken to Corwin
recently?"

"No."

"With Oberon missing and various threats presenting themselves, Fiona has
decided that there needs to be a regent . Those first in line -- Benedict
and Corwin -- aren't interested. Corwin has recently recognized me as his
son."

"Hi, big brother."

I smiled. "Since I am rather fond of having the illusion of free will, I
turned it down."

"Good idea."

"After me comes you."

"I do not want it."

"If you turn it down, Fiona gets it."

"Hmm. Perhaps I should try to get something from her in exchange for
stepping down."

"That's your choice," I said, "but she is formidable, and might take
offense. I don't recommend it."

"That's probably good advice. She can have it for free."

"I had another reason for calling. Have you seen Zack recently?"

"No. Why?"

"I told Rivka I would help her try to find Clarissa. We thought he might be
able to help."

"She was last seen with Julian -- or hunting Julian; I'd prefer the
latter. As for Zack, I haven't seen him in some time."

"Could you find him if you had to?"

"I suppose. It would be time-consuming."

"I might have to ask you for that favor, if that's all right."

"I suppose."

"I'll speak with you later. Take care."

"And you."

I ended the contact. Feeling as if I were somehow overusing the cards, I
pulled out Benedict's Trump. It was still blocked.  I spent the rest of the
afternoon bumming around the castle, reading in the library, and catching
up on this journal.  ***

Late in the afternoon I dressed in my best uniform -- the one with all the
medals. I added the Order of the Albatross from Tremere to my awards and
headed back down Kolvir to Serena's residence. It was a large posh dinner,
full of bores. I was seated on the other side of the room from Serena, with
a couple of merchants and an ambassador. They asked me tiresome questions
about the state of the realm and I tried to be polite.  During the second
course I got a trump call from Rivka. I told her that I hadn't yet been
able to track down Zack or Ivy, but that I was working on it.  "How long?"
she asked.  "A couple of hours."

"I guess I'll just have to entertain myself."

"Don't burn anything down."

"We'll see." She faded out.  Just a couple of minutes later, I got another
call from Rivka. She was no longer in the castle. I could see Ygg behind
her.

"I was wondering how much time has passed?" she asked, "since I am in a
place where time moves strangely."

"How did you get to Ygg?"

"It was on the way."

"I thought you had no way to travel shadow."

"No way to go contiguously."

"How so?"

"I can only go places I've been."

"That is a way to travel shadow."

She shrugged.  "It has only been a couple of minutes," I said.  "Oh,
well. I'll call back later."

Again she dropped out. Dinner went by. Serena broke away from her hangers
on and invited me to a private walk in the garden. I accepted, offering her
my arm. With us came the same honor guard who had stood outside the door
that morning.  "You don't like this, do you?" I said.  "No."

"Then it seems to me that you are a lady in need of rescue."

"I most certainly am," she sighed, resting her head upon my shoulder. The
guard sniffed disdainfully.  I whistled. In a moment, Bucephalus
appeared. He hopped over a tall hedge and whinnied to us. I took Serena
about the waist, placed her on the saddle, and mounted behind her. The
guard shouted. Serena giggled as we raced out of the garden, over the wall,
and through the streets. We heard pursuit behind us, but quickly
outdistanced them. Soon I noticed Dapple running along behind us. As we
rode toward Arden, I felt another Trump contact forming. It was Rivka
again.  "All right," I said. "Take us through." With some difficulty, due
to our speed, I sent Dapple through, then the three of us.  We all
discussed the current situation with Merlin. Finally, we decided that
Merlin would search for Ivy while Serena, Rivka, Dapple, Bucephalus and I
would go to see Tazik. I figured that Galantine should be ready by
now. Merlin would call us when he was ready.  We bade farewell and I
shifted toward Tulaine. As we traveled, I tried something I knew to be
possible but had never tried before: I shifted Serena's formal gown into
travel clothing. It was difficult, but I managed it.  Tazik again had a
guest. This time, it was a red-haired fellow with his hand stuck inside a
green metal cage. Inside the cage was a piece of stone which he was
unwilling to let go of. He could not escape the cage without releasing the
stone. We spoke to this person, who said his name was Auricle. He called
the stone his gargoyle, and claimed that he needed it's memory storage
capabilities. Apparently, he had been in the cage, but had shape-shifted
his way out of it. He and Rivka discussed shape shifting theory for some
time.  Tazik came out of her workroom. She handed me Galantine, which was
now whole. I thanked her and gave her a large sack of money.  "What does
this person want?" she asked.  "He needs a locksmith to open the cage," I
said.  Looking bored, Tazik tried a few tools, and was not
successful. Becoming interested, she tried a number of different tools. No
good.  Suddenly, I became aware that Auricle's conversation with Rivka had
switched over to how she had come to be stuck in the cage. She said that
Gwen had trapped her there. Getting her attention was difficult, but I
managed to do so. She confirmed that she had encountered several statues of
a winged woman named Gwen and had experimented on them. We compared notes
on what we had tried. She had never heard of Amber, Pattern, or Shadow
(although she seemed to have traveled among several different universes).
Tazik suggested I try hitting the cage with Galantine. "Will you fix the
sword again if it breaks?" I asked.  "If it breaks, then I didn't make it
right."

I whacked at the cage a few times, to no effect. Tazik was fascinated. She
dug around in her workroom, emerging with a huge hammer inscribed with
mystic runes. It, too, did nothing to the cage.  Soon thereafter, Cassandra
appeared with the fellow Tazik had thrown out on the occasion of my last
visit to this place. She said hello and introduced her companion as
Ingold. I explained the situation to them, and they entered the
conversation.  I slipped off and trumped Bleys. He was sitting on a throne,
apparently holding court. "Hello," I said. "How would you be at undoing a
cage made by Gwen?"

"Not very good," he said. "I would suggest my sister. Brand would been
better, but she might be able to help."

"Do you know if she's available?"

"One minute." Then something very strange happened. Bleys split himself
into two different Trump contacts. One contact sat down at a desk and began
to write a letter. The other contact went to the lab I had seen earlier. In
the lab was Fiona, who was wrapping Corwin's hand. It was looking mostly
healed, while her hand was swathed completely in a bandage.  "I have job
for you, my dear," he said to her. She nodded and turned back to her
bandaging.  When she was done, I explained the problem to her. Corwin
joined in. "I don't really feel in top form right now," said Fiona. "I
suggest you try Valeria. She's not bad at that sort of thing."

"Very well," I said. "I will."

"Do you mind if I come through?" asked Corwin. "This seems interesting."

"Certainly." I held out my hand and he came through the Trump. Then I ended
the contact.  I tried Merlin's Trump. It didn't work. Then
Valeria. "Hello?" she said.  "How good are you at opening magical cages?"

"It's not my area of expertise," she said, "but I'm up for a challenge."

"Good. Come through."

She did. By then, Corwin was straining at the cage, trying to pull two of
the bars apart. He had no success, even when Rivka and Cassandra added
their own considerable strength. I tried Gerard's Trump. No
success. Valeria noticed the card I was using and tried her own Trump of
Gerard. For his daughter, he responded. A few moments later, he arrived.
We explained the problem to him. He pulled off his shirt and gave it a
try. His first pull did nothing. With a grunt of surprise, he put his full
strength into it. Slowly, slowly, two of the bars separated. Auricle pulled
her stone block through the opening. When Gerard let go, the bars sprang
back to their former shape.

A general discussion ensued, with occasional clangs as Tazik or Gerard took
a whack at the cage with some tool or other. I soon tired of the
conversation and found a shady corner. Then I took a nap.  Serena woke me
sometime later. All of the visitors were gone except her, Dapple, and
Bucephalus. "I'm hungry," she said.  Outside, Tazik was still working on
the cage. We went into town and had dinner. When we returned, Tazik was
finishing a pair of swords. They were two fine sabers, one several inches
longer than the other. As I was admiring Tazik's work, Merlin and Cassandra
appeared. Cassandra was dressed in an elaborate gown of red and gold
brocade. I had seen a similar one on Flora last year. At her side she bore
Grayswandir.  "Hello," I said. "How are you?"

"Not regent," she said.  "No. Me either."

"I offered, but they said I was too young."

"I declined."

"So did I," Merlin said.  "I don't understand," she said. "I think it would
be fun to be in charge."

"Clearly you don't understand all of the problems involved in holding the
throne," Merlin said, "or you would be less interested."

The two swords were, apparently, for Cassandra and Corwin. Merlin conjured
enough coin to provide a generous payment and Cassandra took
possession. Clearly, the swords were designed for dealing with threats from
Gwen, since Pattern weapons were ineffective against her constructs.
Cassandra took out her father's Trump and activated it. "I'm heading back
to Pearl," she said. "Would anyone like to come along?" she asked. We all
said no, as we had other commitments. "All right," she said. "Be seeing
you." Then she was gone.  "Well," said Merlin. "Do you want to contact
those we need or shall I?"

"You are far better at getting in touch with people than I," I said.
Merlin opened his pouch and selected a card; it depicted Rivka. On its
reverse was a stylized picture of Ygg. He reached her quickly and brought
her through. After some discussion, we decided that Merlin would return to
Ygg and locate Ivy. The rest of us would return briefly to Amber, pick up
Erik, drop off Serena, and get an omelette for Merlin.  After he
disappeared by sorcery, I brought the rest of us through to Amber by means
of my castle Trump. I said farewell to Serena, located Erik, and told him
of our plan. He was agreeable. Meanwhile, Rivka acquired a basket
containing several fresh omelettes. We met outside. I took out Merlin's
card and, after some effort, achieved a connection. Instantly, there was a
thunderclap and the feeling of electrical discharge. There was a flash of
light and we were falling through to another place.  We landed with a fall
of only a few feet onto dusty sand. Looking around, we discovered that we
were in a desert, surrounded by fog. Nearby were the ruins of a
city. Someone was playing gentle, soothing melody upon a harp. Merlin sat
in the sand nearby, apparently having struck his head on a rock when he
arrived.

The fog said, "hello." Merlin struck up a conversation with the mist, which
called itself Kermit -- Kermit the Fog. It seemed friendly. As the fog
swirled, it revealed a slender woman with dark, dark hair sitting, watching
us and playing. I had seen her briefly on Dalkontyr and been told that her
name was Ivy.  Lying at her feet were three people, apparently
unconscious. We greeted her.  "What are you doing here?" she asked.  Rivka
looked to me. I gestured for her to speak.  "We would like to ask your
assistance in rescuing my mother," she said.  "Who are you people?"

We introduced ourselves.

"I am Ivy," she said, "and my cousins here are Roland, Jackie, and Talos."
The one she identified as Talos did not appear to be a member of the House
of Amber, but I did not correct her.  Rivka explained something of why she
wanted to retrieve Clarissa from this place.  "Will you help us?" asked
Merlin.  "That is a subject you will have to take up with the Queen."

A woman appeared. To describe her is hard, for her hair swirled with all
colors and her clothing danced with jewels and enchantment. I remember
being struck by the power of her eyes, but I know not their hue.  "You
called, my subjects?"

"I'll be going now," said Kermit. He swirled away.  Rivka curtsied; Merlin
and I bowed. Erik drew his sword and drew it up into a salute. Then he
realized that it was made of cold iron, which is said to be deadly to those
of Faerie. In an effort to avoid insult, he threw it away.  The Queen
laughed and I heard the distant echo of silver bells. She turned to our
supplicant. "So, Rivka," she said. "Have you come to reclaim your prize?
I'm sure the dwarves would be happy to give it over."

Rivka reached into the flesh of her hand and withdrew a silver rose.  "Is
that a yes?" asked the Queen.  "I had hoped to rescue my mother."

"Ah, you want your mother. First, I shall have to go off and fix her." She
looked to all of us. "If you gentlefolk will guard these people while I am
away?"

We agreed. The Queen raised an eyebrow toward Ivy, who nodded. They stepped
away together and disappeared.
 A heated discussion ensued as we all tried to figure out what was going
on. Rivka told us that the Queen's name was Titania. Regarding our odd
arrival, Merlin explained that he had been working on a "Trump gate" when I
attempted to contact him. Somehow, we had all fallen through the gate and
come to where it led, which was Ivy's location. He wasn't sure how that had
happened.  "Let me get a professional opinion," he said. He got out his
Trumps, and Valeria joined us a few moments later. Then he accessed another
card and pulled through Darkstar -- he of the chitonous skin and
multifaceted eyes. The more the merrier, I suppose.  Then Erik decided to
go get his sword. He took a step toward it and disappeared. Apparently, it
was very easy to get lost here.  I couldn't think of anything to do about
that, and neither could anyone else. We figured that Erik would probably be
able to look out for himself. Valeria and Rivka talked of their last visit
to this place. Apparently, it had involved dancing, an orgy, and a kiss
from a "handsome prick," -- whatever that might be. Apparently, two of the
cardinal rules here were to never accept gifts, never eat, and never fall
asleep.  Meanwhile, Merlin and Darkstar became involved in a heated and
technical discussion of Trump and magic.  Suddenly, Kermit the fog swirled
back around us. "Get that thing away from me!" he shouted.  "Tally ho!"
yelled Erik, swinging his sword about as he appeared among us.  "What
happened?" I asked.  "I was lost in the desert, and this smog appeared."

Kermit uttered an ungentlemanly epithet.  "It refused to bring me back
here, so I began threatening it with my sword. It ran away, I followed, and
then I was back here."

"Tell him to put that thing away!"

Erik did so and apologized. Soon they were the best of friends. Kermit
launched into a long and involved tale of his origins. It involved a love
affair between a sandstorm and a cloud.  We settled in to wait. Merlin and
Darkstar began an elaborate experiment involving a large design laid out in
the sand. Soon, Ivy and Titania returned. The Queen approached Rivka and
looked at her expectantly.  "I suppose I should return this," Rivka
said. She handed the silver rose to Titania, who accepted it. She dropped
it into the air and it disappeared.  "I would like to obtain the release of
my mother," Rivka said. "I'm not sure how to do that.  "Well," said
Titania, "you could trade your position for hers."

"Perhaps I could trade this pendant." Rivka held out a small sparkling
jewel on a chain.  "No. That's just a gate to Faerie. I can make more of
those."

"Is she yours to trade away, then?"

"Not quite," said Titania.  "Here," said Erik, "add this to the bargain."
He offered his sword. Titania seemed unimpressed.  Rivka was annoyed at the
interruption. "Why don't you try whistling up a horse?" she said, "and add
that in."

"OK." He whistled, and the sky darkened. A vast bird was about to land upon
us.  Of course, I should have learned from Erik's mistake. But
no. Foolishly, I leaped upon Bucephalus and tried to get us out from under
it. Bucephalus ran just a few steps and we were suddenly in open desert
with a huge sandstorm descending upon us. Behind us was a large walled
city. Horns blew and the gates were being pulled closed. We went in just
before they shut.  I brought out my Trump deck. All of the cards looked
like Zack or Ivy, and none of them worked. On her Trump, Ivy was standing
nude in a forest. A strand of ivy wound its way about her, providing
strategic concealment.  The locals looked elven. They spoke a strange
dialect of Thari, but with a bit of practice I managed to make myself
understood. As I did so I noticed that the city looked like a stage
prop. They were rearranging breakdown facades and constructing empty
buildings.  Discussion with the people there was complicated by the
necessity to never give anything away. If I accepted a gift, even of
information, they would "own" me. Conversation was, apparently, allowed,
however. In the midst of considerable circumlocution, I discovered several
facts. Apparently, these people were magical constructs whose only purpose
was to further the local storyline, which existed for the purpose of
encouraging tourism. There were other storylines currently running. One of
them included an unnamed drunken Amberite in a bar. The plan was to keep
him there forever, to prevent him from causing any trouble. The locals
would love to get their hands on more Amberites; I found it unnecessary to
identify myself as one. If I started to seriously disrupt this story, the
Authenticity Police would arrive from the Unseelie Court to deal with me.

Eventually, the person I spoke with suggested that I get back to my own
story. The sandstorm, he said, was only a foot thick and I could pass
through it easily. I bid farewell, mounted Bucephalus, and exited the way I
had come. As promised, the sandstorm was only a prop. Upon penetrating it,
Bucephalus and I found ourselves in open desert.  On the distant horizon, I
saw a giant statue of a cat head with a gold ring through one ear. As that
was the only landmark I headed in that direction. When I was perhaps a half
mile away, a huge voice boomed, "WHO GOES THERE?"

"I would be afraid to tell you," I replied, "since you appear so
formidable."

The cat statue lowered its voice. "Well, that's just my line. Would it be
all right if I said the rest?"

"Oh, yes. Please do."

"Thanks so much. Here goes: TAKE NOTHING BUT THE LAMP."

"That's it?"

"Yes."

A voice in the distance shouted my name. Rivka, Erik, and Darkstar were
walking this way. They carried Jackie, and Talos. Roland had apparently
woken up and was walking with them.  The cat statue gave its lines once
again in its giant voice. I was introduced to Roland -- a tall, willowy
fellow with auburn hair. They told me that Clarissa had been rescued and
had left Faerie already. We discussed how we might follow suit. Ivy said
that, since she is familiar with this place, she would enter the cat statue
and retrieve the magic lamp. With that, we would be able to wish our way
out of Faerie. We agreed, and she went in through the mouth.  While we
waited, I asked Erik where Merlin was. He pointed to Darkstar. Darkstar
opened his chest. Nestled among Darkstar's organs was a small statue.

"He had a little accident when we were building a Trump gate," Darkstar
said.  "You mean that's Merlin?" I asked.  "Yes," he said. "I need to
consult a few experts before I'll know whether he can be changed back."

I sighed. Ivy returned with a dusty golden lamp. "It has a magical
attachment," she said. "I'm not sure if we want to use it."

"Yes," said Darkstar. "Those who wield it are cursed to slay each other in
greed."

"Then we'll try a different plan," said Ivy. "We'll use the direct
route. I'll find a gate to Arden. Would that be all right?"

We agreed. I wondered why she hadn't done that in the first place; perhaps
the storyline required it. We walked, and the scene quickly changed to
scrub land, then open woods, then dense a dense forest where animals
greeted us, then forest Arden.  As we got our bearings, a group of several
rangers arrived to check us out. When I identified myself, they told me
that I had been placed in charge of Arden by General Benedict. How
nice. They didn't know who was in charge of Amber. I asked if they had
anything else to report, and they told me that there had been an
unconfirmed sighting of someone matching Clarissa's description recently,
but they had discounted it. I tried Benedict's Trump, but it was blocked.
Around that time, Talos woke up. Ivy introduced him to us. He was a large,
muscular fellow who looked like he had spent a lot of time out of doors. He
identified himself as Jackie's fiance. Jackie was in poor shape, as
whatever she had been laying on had eaten away at her back. We did what we
could for her, but clearly she needed medical attention soon.  The Rangers
told me that a command post was nearby. We went there and I met with the
local commander. He had a copy of an order placing me in full command of
Arden and the rangers. It was signed by Fiona, regent in Amber.  Darkstar
said that he wanted to research methods of restoring Merlin to his proper
form. Then he disappeared. I shuffled out Fiona's Trump and made contact
with her. As she started to say hello, the contact broke off. Within a few
seconds, I got a trump contact -- it was her. She explained that Darkstar
had broken through into Bleys' shadow and that had disrupted our contact.
"That would make sense, I suppose, since he came from here."

"Indeed," she said.  "I was calling because I just got to Arden and was
told that I am in command."

"Yes. Benedict recommended you for the role."

"Very well. Do you have any orders?"

"Get Arden's defenses in order. Arrange a competent command structure,
including a good second in command, in case you are needed elsewhere."

"I will endeavor to do so," I said.  "Was there anything else?"

"No," I said.  "I will be in Amber this evening for dinner. Please attend
if you can. Also, if you see Rivka, tell her that I'd like her to get in
touch with me."

"I shall her let her know that the next time that I see her. Good-bye."

She nodded and ended the contact. I turned to Rivka. "Fiona would like you
to get in touch with her."

"Oh," she said. "OK."

Just then I got another Trump contact. It was Rhiannon. She knew that I was
in charge of Arden and was calling to recommend Roland as a competent
assistant. Now that was impressive intelligence! I told her that I was with
Roland and would keep an eye on him. Then I told her about the Gwen
statues; regarding these, she was completely ignorant. She thanked me for
the information and ended the contact.  "Malachai," Rivka said, "could you
send us to Amber?"

Using Trump, I sent her and Talos through, with Talos carrying Jackie. I
hoped she would be all right, as the damage to her back was considerable.
After that I pulled Roland aside. "I just spoke with Rhiannon," I
said. "She tells me that you are quite well-versed in military matters."

"You could say that."

"I have heard that you come from an alternate place in which Amber is
considerably different."

"Yes. Most of the elders there are dead. We have just retaken Amber."

"From whom?"

"From Finndo. I was one sword stroke away from killing him and avenging my
father."

"Your father?"

Roland thought for a moment, then nodded to himself. "Benedict -- my father
-- is dead. As he hellrode to Amber, a thousand shadows were destroyed
around him."

"I'm sorry," I said. I waited a few moments before continuing. "What do you
plan to do here? You know that Benedict is alive in this place."

"Yes, I know. I am reluctant to let him know that in another place I am his
son. I would be interested in a place in the military from which to prove
myself."

"I could use a hand here in Arden."

"You mean second in command?"

I thought for a moment, and nodded.  "I would prefer a lower starting
place, so that I can demonstrate that I have no need of patronage. In my
Amber, Benedict did not know that I was his son. I joined the military and
rose through the ranks."

"I found that I am an Amberite only a short time ago myself," I said.  "Who
is your father?"

"Corwin recently recognized me as his son; and indeed it is quite possible
that he is my biological father. There are two places I could help you
start. I could enlist you in the Arden Rangers, or in the Lancers."

"I think the Lancers would be better."

"Very well," I said. "Tonight I will introduce you to Colonel Prospero,
commander of the 2nd Lancers. I can sponsor you into a lieutenancy."

"That would be very good. Thanks."

"Benedict will most likely be there. If you would like an introduction, I
would be happy to provide one. If not, I will not reveal your secret."

He thought about that for a long time. "How do you think he would react to
me?"

"I'm not sure. I don't claim to know him extraordinarily well. I don't
expect that he would be too awful about it, though. He might not believe
you. On the other hand, he is very good at finding things out, and it would
probably be better if you told him yourself."

"All right," he said. "I would appreciate an introduction. My name is
actually Orlando. Orlando Benedictine."

"Fine. In the meantime, how would you like to take a tour of Arden? I need
to try to get the Rangers in shape."

"That would be very good."

Ivy was also interested. She had grown up in her version of Arden and was
eager to see what this place was like. Erik came also. After a few minutes
of discussion it became clear that Orlando didn't hear anything that Erik
said. When I asked about that Orlando explained that he could neither see
nor hear Erik.  "You see," said Erik, "I have a spell cast on me that keeps
Benedict from perceiving me. It seems to also work for his children."

"Where did this spell come from?"

"I was in a bar with my friend Corwin when Benedict broke in, intent on
killing Corwin -- for what reason I know not. I couldn't let that happen,
so I busted Ben over the head with a beer mug. Later, Corwin arranged to
have the spell placed on me for my protection."

"I'm impressed. Benedict isn't someone who is easy to take out."

Erik shrugged.  We spent the afternoon traveling through the forest,
observing various strategic locations and speaking with Julian's
commanders. They seemed basically competent, although unwilling to speak
their mind or take risks. I got the sense that Julian had only wanted to
hear his own ideas echoed back to him, and punished anyone who didn't give
him exactly what he wanted. A style of this nature makes for a singularly
uninspired command staff.

As we spoke with local commanders and discussed tactics, it became clear
that Orlando was a strategist of considerable depth. His background clearly
favored high-technology weapons, and his eyes gleamed when he heard that
there was a type of gun that worked in the vicinity of Amber. Erik, too,
demonstrated considerable competence in this area.  Ivy, on the other hand,
showed that she knew Arden and the surrounding shadows extremely well. She
discussed the fine points of acquiring, training, and maintaining a
squadron of griffins to use for scouting and harassment of enemy
forces. Unfortunately, she was no strategist.  I spoke with Orlando about
this, since he knew Ivy. He suggested that I offer her a staff, rather than
a command position. I agreed that this would be the best plan.

That evening, Orlando, Erik, Ivy, and I returned to the castle by means of
Trump. I made sure that Orlando and Ivy had acceptable rooms, then went to
dinner. Benedict and Llwella were there. Fiona sat at a new, chair, built
rather like a throne, next to those of Oberon and Clarissa. Rivka sat at
the high table at Fiona's right.  Serena was at high table with a few
ambassadors. I went over to say hello, and she was icily polite to me. As
there was a chair at her side, I joined her.  "What's the matter?" I
whispered.  "Who's the bimbo in your bed?" she asked.  "I have no idea."

We ate in an atmosphere of uncomfortable politeness. As soon as we were
done, we went off to Serena's quarters, where we could talk privately. She
was very upset. Apparently, Jackie had been lodged in my bed for her
convalescence, and the rumors had it that she was my lover.  "It's not
true. Surely you trust me enough not to believe such a rumor."

"Yes, I do." She hugged me. "But I was afraid."

"She's family. Even were I willing to betray you, I would not do so with
family. I don't even know her."

"What's she doing in your bed, then?"

"I don't know. When they came in Rivka was going to arrange for medical
treatment. Maybe she figured that if she were in my quarters she'd get good
treatment."

We spent the rest of the evening making up.  

***

The next morning I slept very late. Serena was already off to attend to
business. I caught up to date on this journal, dressed, and found a
guardsman. I asked if he knew whether Colonel Prospero was in the
castle. He told me that the entire regiment was off with Benedict on
maneuvers. Drat. I had missed introducing him to Prospero the previous
night, and now I couldn't do so today.  I sought out Orlando and apologized
to him.  "That's all right," he said. "I'm sure it will happen soon. By the
way, Talos said he had a run-in with Oberon's chief medical officer. He
said that she's only about five feet tall, but she pushed Talos out of the
room with one hand. What is she?"

"Many of Oberon's personal retainers have extraordinary abilities," I
said. "I'm not sure where they come from."

We met up with Ivy and Erik, then returned to Arden. We spent some time
meeting with the senior command staff, reviewing troop organization,
operational procedures, deployment, training, tactics, and contingency
planning. I was impressed again with the rigidity of Julian's policies. He
seemed to assume that any battle would proceed predictably under a plan
that he would determine in advance. There was no provision for flexible
reaction to changing conditions -- and this in an organization that
specialized in scouting and skirmishing!

The morning was spent planning a series of training exercises designed to
build flexibility and unpredictably into the Rangers' repertoire. We wanted
to provide individual field commanders some ability to make on the spot
decisions about changing circumstances in battle.  Sometime around noon I
received a Trump call. It was Corwin.  "I need your help," he said. "I need
to make an assault..."

"Let me get some people together and we'll be right there."

"Not that kind of help. Do you have a Trump of Oberon?"

"Yes," I said guardedly.  "I need you to distract him for about ten minutes
so that he doesn't notice what I'm doing."

"How would you suggest that I do that?"

"Talk to him. I'm sure you can think of something."

"I'll give it a try, but I can't promise anything."

"Great. Now would be a good time. Thanks." The connection ended.  I was
mortified. Distract His Majesty? My king? The King of Everything? What if
he suspected what I was trying to do? He might strike me down on the spot!

I took a deep breath. Stepping away from the others, I shuffled out
Oberon's card. I concentrated, and the noble features that I so feared
stirred into life.  "Yes? Hello, Malachai."

"Hello, Your Majesty. There are some recent events of which I thought you
should be told."

"Oh, really? I thought things were fairly calm in Amber."

"I'm afraid you've been misinformed."

I proceeded to detail for him the Gwen statues, the blockade of Amber,
Clarissa's disappearance and rescue, Julian's disappearance, and Fiona's
ascendance to the regency. He knew none of it. He seemed particularly
annoyed at Fiona.  "Oh, by the way," he said. "Congratulations on being the
eldest son of my favorite son."

"Thank you."

"That makes you second in line for the throne."

"Second?"

"Yes. Corwin, then you."

"What about Benedict?"

"He is not an heir. My relationship with his mother was dissolved ab
ibnito."

"I see."

"Was there anything else?"

"No," I said. I had given Corwin the time he had asked for.  "Well,
then. Thank you for your loyalty. I would appreciate it if you would let me
know if anything else crops up of major import. Apparently, my other
information sources are less than completely reliable."

"Yes, Your Majesty." I ended the connection. Wiping sweat from my brow, I
returned to the others. Second in line for the throne? Drat. And Corwin
probably wouldn't want it. That makes me, in effect, heir to the throne of
Amber. Lucky me.  We spent the rest of the afternoon reviewing troops. I
tried calling Benedict periodically, but the connection was
blocked. Finally, in the late afternoon, I got through. Benedict confirmed
that I had been his choice for acting Warden of Arden, and that the
reorganization I had in mind was exactly what he was looking for.  "How do
you feel about Fiona's assumption of the Regency?"

"Oberon wrote a letter authorizing it."

Having just spoken to Oberon, I knew that either His Majesty had pretended
surprise when I told him about Fiona, or that she had forged the letter. If
Fiona had Oberon's support, he would have had no reason to lie to me. I
wish now that I had told Benedict about this, but instead I kept silent. At
the time I remember thinking that it prove useful to have something on
Fiona. I am becoming less immune to the family games, and in this case it
later turned out to be a grave mistake.  "Will you be at dinner?" I asked.
"Yes. Why?"

"I have someone I think you would like to meet."

"Very well. I'll be returning shortly with the 1st, 2nd, and 5th
regiments."

"Then I'll see you at dinner," I said, ending the contact.  Soon thereafter
I opened a Trump contact to the castle and brought through Orlando and
Erik. Ivy had constructed a magical gate to another shadow in order to
recover a pair of horses she and Orlando had left behind. She said she'd be
along presently. I stepped through to the castle and we made plans to meet
for dinner.  I went to my room and knocked on the door.  "Hello?" said a
woman's voice. "Who is it?"

"Malachai."

"Ur...come in."

Sharing my bed were Jackie and Talos. She was awake and looking much better
than the unconscious woman I had seen a couple of days before. She thanked
me for the use of the room and I said that it had not been an imposition,
since I had been away most of the last couple of days. I did, however, need
a change of clothes. I waited outside while they got dressed, then they
waited while I changed into a clean uniform. Then I showed them where the
dining hall was. I got them seated with Orlando and Erik, then went to say
hello to Serena. She was busy with ambassadorial business.  Fiona, who was
again seated at the right hand of Oberon's empty throne, crooked a finger
at me.  "Malachai," she said. "I am holding court after dinner. I wanted to
confirm you as acting Warden of Arden."

"My only concern," I said, "is Julian's response should he return."

"I will put in a good word with him. I'm sure that will be sufficient."
Having heard rumor's of Julian's attraction to her, I was sure that it
would be.  "I see," she continued, "that you have been taking care of our
guests from another Amber."

"Yes."

"Good. I would like to have them presented in court tonight."

"I'll let them know."

"Thank you. Enjoy your dinner."

Dismissed, I began to walk back to my table, but Benedict caught my eye. I
went over to him.  "If there is someone you want me to meet," he said,
"bring him to me now."

"Not later?"

"No. I will be leaving right after dinner."

"All right. Give me a moment." I went back to the table, where the others
were comparing their court to ours.  "Fiona wants to see you all after
dinner," I said. "In court."

"Why?" Jackie asked.  "I'm not sure," I told her. "Probably she wants to
determine your relationship to the kingdom."

"Is what I'm wearing all right?" She wore simple traveling clothes.  "They
are not the best way to appear in court," I said, "but the family is known
for its individuality."

"Cool. Can you let me know what the rules are here?"

"I'll be happy to tell you what I know, although I am no expert on
protocol. But that will have to wait a moment. Orlando, I told Benedict
that there is someone I think he should meet. He wants to see you now."

"Right now?"

"Yes. He's leaving after dinner. How much explaining do you want me to do
in the course of introduction?"

"Perhaps I should do the explaining."

"As you wish."

I led him over to the General's post. "Benedict, this is Orlando. I think
you should talk."

"By the way, Malachai," Benedict said. "Please tell Erik to stop it. It's
unseemly."

"What has he been doing?" Orlando asked.  Benedict wiggled his fingers
stiffly in front of his nose to demonstrate.  "I'll tell him," I said.
Benedict and Orlando looked at each other appraisingly for a long moment,
then Orlando began to explain where he was from. I walked away, back to the
others. Erik was disappointed to hear that Benedict was on to his prank. I
spent the rest of the meal explaining what I knew of protocol to Jackie.

Preparations for court followed closely after dinner. Ivy arrived and was
briefed on the situation. As we entered the great hall, Jackie encountered
Flora and Rainbow. Flora was quite aware of Jackie's origin and hinted that
she was the same person who had raised her in Jackie's alternate Amber. She
would not explain how this could be so.  I went and sat next to Prospero. I
told him that I had a candidate for him and explained about Orlando. He
introduced me to Dimitrius, his new staff officer, and we made plans to
discuss the matter later.  Orlando, Jackie, Talos, and Ivy were summoned
before the court. Fiona explained to them that she took their presence to
be a threat. She could therefore give them four choices: to swear fealty to
the Crown of Amber, as represented by her; to demonstrate family membership
by walking the Pattern; to become part of the royal family in some other
manner; or to be executed.  Orlando and Ivy swore fealty without
hesitation. Jackie refused, explaining that she wished to avoid such
entanglements.  "Then you must establish your relationship to this throne
in some other manner," said Fiona, "or We cannot suffer you to live."

Talos stepped forward. "Since my fiance will not swear fealty, I cannot. I
have never claimed to have the Blood of Amber; therefore it would be
suicide to attempt to walk the Pattern."

Fiona smiled. Clearly she hoped to force Jackie to swear fealty by this
threat to Talos. If Jackie became a member of the family, she could protect
Talos by marrying him.  "Therefore," said Talos, "I must join the family in
some other manner. Random, I ask you to come into court."

Random stood and came before the throne.  "I ask that you adopt me as your
son," Talos said.  Random smirked. Fiona glared. "I hereby adopt...er,
what's your name?"

"Talos."

"I hereby adopt Talos as my son, with all privileges and duties of a member
of the royal family of Amber. He shall be heir to my titles and property
after his elder brother, Martin."

Under Fiona's burning gaze, Random put an arm around his new son, Talos.
"That leaves you, Jackie," Fiona said. "What is your choice?"

"I will walk the Pattern."

"Very well. Immediately after this court, we will go to the Pattern room
and we shall test your heritage. You are all, for now, dismissed from this
court."

They left. Court business continued, in its usual boring manner. I was
called into court briefly and confirmed as acting Warden of Arden. When
court concluded, Fiona uttered a series of Words and everyone in the great
hall was transported down to the Pattern room. Nice trick, that. There was
a hush as those unused to magic took in the change. A few courtiers
fainted, while others laughed nervously. Someone approached the Pattern
itself and was warned away.  I went over to Fiona. "Do you think she will
succeed?" I asked.  "I really have no idea."

"Do you know any way to help her?"

"Perhaps Oberon could, but I can't."

I thanked her and backed away into the crowd. In retrospect, Fiona did not
seem herself, but at the time I attributed it to the sudden acquisition of
power. I tried Oberon's Trump, but he was not available. Then I tried
Corwin.  "Malachai. I'm glad you called."

"What is it?"

"Oberon is trying to walk my Pattern, and I don't think he'll succeed."

"I have a similar problem.  Someone is about to walk the Amber Pattern. Is
there any way to assist her?"

"You need to be attuned to the Jewel of Judgment, like me, Oberon, or
Fiona."

"Fiona is here, and she says she doesn't know how to help."

"She's lying. Can you give me a hand here?"

I didn't know what to do. "I...I don't think I can at the moment, but I'll
give you a call when I can."

"Fine. I'll be seeing you."

I ended the contact. I knew that Fiona was lying. I also knew that she had
forged Oberon's signature on a letter authorizing her assumption to the
Regency.  Intending to use the threat of exposing her duplicity to force
her to help Jackie, I headed toward Fiona. Just as I approached her, she
held up a hand, signaling that she was receiving a Trump call. Then, in a
sparkle of rainbow colors, she disappeared.  I cursed silently. Random
trumped out with Paolo (whom I hadn't noticed before), then Talos. I spoke
with Jackie. She intended to walk the Pattern now, regardless of whether
Fiona was here. When I suggested a later date, Rhiannon insisted that
Jackie could not leave without walking the Pattern first.  Drat. I wished
Jackie good luck, then took out Corwin's card. As I made contact, I saw
that he was at his Pattern. Behind him, I saw Cassandra tying up an
unconscious Fiona. Nearby, Oberon had one foot firmly planted on the
Pattern. Why does it all have to happen at once?

"Are you still looking for help?" I asked.  "Sure. Come through." I took
Corwin's hand and came to him. "Help Cassandra. I'm a little busy right
now." He appeared to be concentrating on something.  "What's going on?" I
asked Cassandra.  "I just got here. Apparently Corwin sensed Oberon's
attempt to walk the Pattern. He called Fiona here, then knocked her out
when she wouldn't help."

"What I am going to do," Corwin said, "is draw power from Fiona, and drain
Pattern energy into you, Malachai."

"All right," I said.  He concentrated, and soon I began to feel warm.
"You're glowing," Cassandra said. She tried touching me, trying to drain
off a bit of energy, but it didn't work. Then she took out my Trump. She
made contact, and I felt a surge of power flash from me to her. As that
happened, I got a flash of mental contact. She was worried that I might not
be her brother and therefore might not be able to handle this kind of
power. She figured that she could because she knew she was Corwin's
daughter. Then a pulse of fear as it overwhelmed her.  The contact ended as
Cassandra fell to the ground, unconscious. I saw that she was breathing all
right, and realized that I no longer felt hot. Then it started to build up
again. It felt almost like my first step on the Pattern.

I rifled quickly through my Trump deck and selected Rhiannon's card. I
concentrated on her image and began to get through. I felt the same surge
as when Cassandra had trumped me, and the contact went down. Then it again
began to build. I looked at Corwin, consumed in concentration. I thought
about pulling Grayswandir from its scabbard at his side and removing
Oberon's foot. Would the image of the Pattern inscribed on the blade allow
that to get him away?

Just as I began to reach for the sword, I got a Trump contact. Rhiannon's
image appeared for a second, and another burst of energy transferred from
me to her. Then the contact went down again. The energy stream began to
lessen, or perhaps equalize. Oberon's foot slowly lifted up, then off the
Pattern. Then he collapsed. Corwin, exhausted, dragged himself over to his
father.  I heard clanging. I turned and found Ingold, whom I had not
noticed here before, fighting a set of swords that seemed to be wielded by
invisible opponents. Considering the circumstances, he was doing rather
well. Behind the wall of swords, Fiona stood with a dark look in her
eyes. She appeared to be casting some sort of spell in Oberon's
direction. He began to ignite.  I drew Galantine and rushed toward Fiona,
whose back was toward me. With all my strength, I tried to bash her across
the back of the head with the hilt of my sword. My blow bounced off of some
sort of magical shield, but some force was transmitted to her. She stumbled
back.  Forgetting Oberon for the moment, she turned to me. "Ungrateful
bastard," she hissed.  Behind her, Corwin hefted Oberon over his
shoulder. "Get Cassandra," he shouted. Fiona turned toward him. I took
Cassandra, still unconscious, about the waist. Corwin ran, shouting for me
to follow. I did so, feeling the heat of Fiona's spell upon my back. In a
moment -- far quicker than I could have managed -- Corwin shifted us into
another shadow.  We were on grass, next to a waterfall. Corwin dropped his
father and went to dunk his head. I let Cassandra down, a bit more
gently. They were both breathing. Wearily, I went to the waterfall and
gulped cold water.  "I don't know if Ingold made it," Corwin said.  "Should
we go back there?" I asked. I felt guilty enough about attacking the woman
who had saved my life so many years before; deserting a comrade in battle
would be too much.  Corwin considered for a moment. "Not without backup."
He gave me a Trump and the silver rose from his cloak. "Go to Pearl," he
said. "Show them the rose. Get Deth, Rudy, Seth, and Madir. Then call me
and bring them here."

The Trump depicted the castle at Pearl. I went through. The guards who
challenged me let me through when they saw the silver rose. I ran to the
castle and was directed to a room where I found Rudy, Seth, and Madir, but
not Deth, who was apparently away. I explained quickly, called Corwin, and
brought us all through to him. Corwin, Rudy, Seth, and Madir quickly
developed a plan and went off, shifting shadow. I was left behind with
Cassandra and Oberon. I checked them over. Cassandra woke up when I touched
her wrist, and I explained to her what had happened. Oberon, however, was
ashen and straining at each breath.  "Maybe Corwin's Pattern is doing him
harm," suggested Cassandra.  "I think you are right," I said. "But how do
we get him away? I can't travel these shadows, and neither can you."

"Darhyse can."

"You're right."

Darhyse shifted into her normal form and we loaded Oberon onto her
back. Then she traveled through Shadow until we reached the barrier. She
then informed us that she could go no further. I tried Corwin's Trump -- no
answer. The same for Merlin. Cassandra had a Trump of Darkstar, and we
tried that. He answered and said he was willing to help. He came to us, and
brought use through the barrier. There on the other side was the field we
had seen before. It contained the same tent, bearing the Unicorn banner. We
thanked Darkstar; he gave us his strange insect grin and disappeared.  We
brought Oberon to the tent where Caine lay sleeping. There was another cot,
into which we placed the king, and first aid supplies. We assisted him as
best we could and hooked him up to an intravenous saline drip. Then I
called Gerard.  He was astonished at the news and insisted on pulling both
Oberon and Caine through to Amber, in the library. Gerard checked the work
we had done on Oberon and grunted with reluctant satisfaction. Soon a group
of others had arrived -- Benedict had called a family meeting. Flora,
Llwella, Rhiannon, Merlin, Random, Martin, Darkstar, Erik, and Bleys
arrived. Bleys' right arm was hanging in sling (I later found out that he
had tried striking a Gwen statue with Aundantrik -- a foolish maneuver,
given that I had told him what happened when I tried the same thing). A
young woman came through with Random, wearing formal clothing. I later
found out that she was the Duchess Cathryne of House Jesby, in Chaos. She
carried an odd-looking sword.  Cassandra and I told our stories. There was
debate regarding what was happening and what should be done about it (and,
of course, who was at fault). Not surprisingly, Benedict decided for us
all.  "Everyone," he said. "Please take out your Trump of Fiona." We did
so. "On three, everyone will concentrate. One, two, three."

We saw through Fiona's eyes. She was fighting, using a mass of swords she
manipulated remotely against Corwin, Rudy, Seth, Ingold, and a couple of
others I didn't recognize. She had grown wings, just like Gwen, and her
body was made of white stone. We could tell that she was not in control of
her body.  There was a flash of light on our side, and we felt a powerful
presence in the library. It felt distinctly like Clarissa. Oberon sat up,
looking suddenly well. He pulled the I.V. from his arm and consulted with
Benedict, who briefly summarized the situation for him. "Some should go
through to assist," I overheard him say to Benedict.  "It could be a trap,"
Benedict said. "I should stay here." Had anyone else said that, it would
have sounded fearful. Coming from Benedict, we knew that it was his
dispassionate assessment of the situation.  "I'll go," said Gerard. From
somewhere he produced a huge metal club. Bellowing like an ox, he jumped
through the Trump connection and struck Fiona over the head. The club
shattered and Gerard was forced back by a flurry of sword strikes, some
wounding him.  Oberon got a sword from somewhere and followed him, joining
the fray on the other side of the Trump connection. I went to
Benedict. "May I borrow your gun?" I asked, pointing to the large revolver
he carried on one hip. Without a word he drew it and handed it to me. With
it he handed over three boxes of ammunition, marked "A," "?," and "E." Just
for the hell of it, I aimed the gun into my Trump card (making sure that no
one in the library was on the other side) and fired. I put a hole through
the card -- the bullet did not go through the connection. Oh, well. I
reloaded.  Benedict cupped his hands together and gestured that he would
boost me through. With Galantine in my left hand and the pistol in my
right, I placed one foot in his hands and was launched. I flew through the
Trump connection and went sailing past Fiona's head. Silently asking for
forgiveness from the woman who had, for her own reasons, saved my life, I
fired, emptying all chambers. As I approached the ground, Corwin darted
forward, forestalling one magical blade from piercing my chest at the cost
of a cut on the left arm for me and a slash on the side for him. I hit the
ground and rolled. My shots had had little effect, except for one in the
left eye, which had seemed to bother her.  I reloaded from the "A"
box. Someone began trying to trump me -- I ignored it and fired again,
aiming for the eyes. The first hit her forehead, knocking her back
slightly. After that she seemed to compensate, and the rest of my shots
were deflected by her magical shield. I opened the "?" box. The tip of each
round was inscribed with what appeared to be a tiny section of the
Pattern. I opened the "E" box and loaded the pistol with normal-looking
bullets. I aimed and pulled the trigger, but the gun would not fire. I
tried several times more, but it was no good. All right. I loaded the "?"
rounds. This time, when I fired, the shot diverted from Fiona and headed
straight for Oberon. Amazingly, he deflected the bullet with his sword. I
suppose those rounds were designed to head for the greatest source of
Pattern locally available.  I put the pistol in my belt, stood, transferred
Galantine into my right hand, and answered the Trump call. It was
Cassandra. She passed through Rivka in her chained fire goddess form and
Auricle. Then Cassandra came through. Auricle grew a large number of arms
from her chest and jumped forward, trying to grab as many of Fiona's swords
as she could. All of her hands were cut off, flying everywhere. I joined
the fray against a staggering array of blades. Many of the others were
wounded, and I was hard pressed to hold the swords away.  Behind Fiona
there appeared a big orange lizard, standing on its hind legs. It carried a
strange sword that seemed to writhe in her hands. The lizard struck Fiona a
hard blow across the midsection, cutting her stone body in half like a
stonemason's chisel. Just as she did that, Rivka threw a blast of flame
forward, sweeping several of the swords to the side. I tried to jump
forward past the flames just as the remaining swords exploded
outward. Something knocked me down and I was stunned for a moment. When I
opened my eyes and cleared them of blood, I saw a naked redheaded child
lying on the ground where Fiona had stood. She was crying, but unhurt.
Most of the others were down. Corwin and Oberon lay on the ground bleeding
with fragments of swords protruding from their bodies. "Damn it," I
thought. "They are not allowed to be dead!" I got up on hands and knees and
began to crawl toward them. I noticed that most of my vision had turned
black, but I could still see directly forward. There was a booming sound
and suddenly Ingold, Benedict, Erik, and Flora were there. Gerard scooped
me up in one beefy arm and Oberon in the other. "Ready," he said. I felt
darkness enfold me, and knew no more.  I woke up on the floor of the
library, bleeding. People were standing around, but I couldn't tell who
they were because my vision was blurry. I couldn't seem to move much,
although I was not in pain. I knew from previous experiences like this that
that was not necessarily a good sign.  I recognized Duchess Cathryne as she
walked by me. "Excuse me," I said weakly. "Maybe someone could get me to
the infirmary. I seem to be bleeding."

"Oh," she said. "You're awake now. Maybe I should work on you." She knelt
beside me and spread her hands over me. I felt an odd tingling sensation,
first in my shoulder, then my side. I felt much better, although still
weak.  The castle medical staff finally arrived about then and began
patching people up. Gerard was standing with a sword stuck in his chest,
blithely drinking a beer. A medic came to me and began to apply
bandages. Cathryne wandered off.  Ingold knelt beside me. "You live?" he
asked.  "Yes. Is everyone else all right?"

"I guess so."

"Where is Cassandra?" I asked.  "She came through with me. I guess she must
have wandered off."

We spoke with Cathryne while she performed her magical healing on
Corwin. He had three sword blades imbedded in his body, although there
didn't seem to be any bleeding. I watched as one slowly dissolved.

Apparently it had been Cathryne, in lizard form, who had struck down
Fiona. Her sword was a Logrus weapon she had borrowed from Suhuy, Keeper of
the Logrus.  "I find it interesting," I said, "that Gwen manifestations are
immune to Pattern, but not Logrus."

She shrugged and continued to work on Corwin. I managed to get up and limp
over to where Merlin was speaking with Gerard. There was a sword blade
protruding from Gerard's chest. Like Corwin's, this was not bleeding. On
closer inspection, I saw that it was made of white stone rather than
metal. It didn't seem to bother him; in fact he was using it as a drink
holder. Perhaps they would soon become fashionable.  "We might have a
problem," Merlin said.  "Cassandra is missing."

"Yes. How did you know?"

"Ingold said she came through with him, but she would not wander off with
Corwin so wounded."

"Good point," he said. "Should I tell Ingold or do you want to?"

"Why don't we both talk to him?"

Merlin went and got Ingold.

"Cassandra is missing," I told him.  "Couldn't she have wandered off?"

"Not with Corwin so sorely wounded," Merlin said.  "You're right. I'd
better go look for her."

"Do you need help?" I asked.  "How much do you know about transdimensional
matrixes?"

"Nothing."

"Then you can't help."

I turned to Merlin. "Then should you help?" I asked him.  "I don't know
anything about that stuff."

"You know magic."

"There are many paths of magic."

Ingold wanted only privacy and lots of food. I led him to a small gallery
and left orders that he not be disturbed, other than to provide a large
supply of victuals. A servant arrived and told me that a Ambassador Serena
wished to see me on a matter of some urgency.  I made my good-byes and went
to see Serena. She was speaking with the Begman ambassador outside of her
room. She made her excuses, claiming that she had an important matter to
discuss with me. Smirking slightly, he bowed and left. I went inside, and
the exhaustion began to sink in. Serena got me a drink, and while I sipped
it I gave her a summary of what I knew of recent events. Then, fussing over
my wounds, she put me to bed.  I woke late and spent most of the morning
with Serena. Later, after she had left and I was working on this journal, I
got a Trump call. It was Corwin, looking far better than the last time I
had seen him.  "I am here with lady Cathryne," he said. "We were wondering
if you might like to come through and take part in an interesting
conversation we were having."

I gathered up, Galantine, left a note for Serena, and stepped through. We
were standing on a glass floor in a place up in the sky. I could see blue
sky and clouds in all directions. It was very disorienting at first. Corwin
explained that this place was blocked to outside scrutiny.  "Has Cassandra
been found?" I asked.  "Yes. She was caught between worlds, but Ingold
found her."

"Good."

"I sent her off for some tutoring. She won't be back for some time."

"I see."

Cathryne explained a complicated theory she had. Apparently, she believed
that Flora was behind everything. I tried to cast doubt on bits and pieces
of the theory, but she had it rather well worked out. Cathryne seemed
rather paranoid, but on the other hand someone was out to get us. Her
theory about Flora seemed possible, but rather unlikely. I agreed to gather
whatever information I could. Then Corwin trumped me back to the castle.  I
caught up on this journal and took the rest of the afternoon off to
recuperate.  * * *

Things have been busy here since last I wrote. It has been several months.
I settled in as Warden of Arden, working with Orlando and Ivy to train the
Rangers and develop a more flexible doctrine. The most work has been
required among the officers, who had be taught that under no circumstances
should they exercise initiative or deviate in any way from their rigid
procedures. That left the Rangers desperately vulnerable to any attack that
did not proceed in exactly the manner that Julian foresaw. We conducted a
long series of exercises in which we made it clear to the command staff
that not only were they allowed to exercise initiative and take an active
part in planning, they were now required to do so. A few could not adapt to
this approach and were replaced.  Additionally, we worked with Benedict to
provide the Rangers with training in the use of guns. We developed a
flexible tactical doctrine that emphasized scouting and ambush, to make use
of our home ground advantage to best effect. Attackers are led by feigned
flight into pre-planned killing zones. We set up a system of traps,
watchtowers, and localized fortifications, establishing a defense in depth
from any angle of attack. Any Ranger units that were cut off or bypassed by
an invader were trained to hide and look for opportunities to disrupt the
supply and command structure of the enemy. I asked Bleys to look over our
plans and point out any weaknesses, but he declined on the grounds that it
wouldn't be "sporting." I wonder...  Ivy began on some pet projects,
including the importation of griffins. She has set up an aerie and trained
a batch of riders. They are effective scouts and, we hope, an effective
counter to any airborne attack.  After some intense conversations with
Orlando and Ivy, we decided to incorporate portable field guns, mortars,
and minefields into the defense of certain critical approaches. Ivy was
concerned about the potential damage to the forest. I pointed out that such
weapons would be used only in the event of dire threat. Julian himself had
found it necessary to burn much of Arden to defend against Corwin's
invasion during the Succession War. I proposed to use less destructive
means to protect against a possible overwhelming attack. Finally, they
agreed. By now we have most of the weapons we had originally planned for.
It has been quite a lot of work, but I believe that Arden is now in
acceptable shape militarily. We even performed well in a recent set of
exercises with the Lancers.  Politically, events have been stable and
quiet. Oberon has been away most of the time, but he made it very clear
that no one had his permission to take over in his stead. The blockade
continues. I have helped out the Lancers by leading caravans on two
occasions -- much to our profit -- but have not had time for more. I am now
far richer than I had ever really imagined I could be.  Fiona has
apparently been changed into a 10-year old girl with no memory of her
former self. Although I witnessed her transformation, I do not understand
how it happened. Bleys and Rivka took her away for "education" and I have
not seen her.  Orlando and I have spent quite a bit of time together. We
have sparred often. I believe I have a slight edge on him when it comes to
simple fencing, but he has a broader understanding of combat under varying
conditions than I. He took me off into Shadow to introduce me to combat in
various higher-technology aircraft, with which he is a master. He has not
yet fought any duels with Benedict's sons. Erik has spent most of his time
back in Tremere, and Ingold is in Pearl. Corwin has not been available,
although I have tried to contact him several times. Benedict has consented
to spar with me on a few occasions. He is, of course, stunningly
capable. There have been a few times when I began to see what he was doing
and at least make him choose other ways to defeat me. I think I need to
find someone who is not so far advanced than I to teach me. Most of what
Benedict says and does goes right past me without my understanding. I have
been practicing hard, however, and I hope to catch up someday.  I have
spent some time with Serena, but not enough. Tomorrow, she and I will head
off into shadow for a vacation. I intend to bring us somewhere where time
flows quickly relative to Amber, then settle down someplace comfortable and
relax. 

* * *

Once again things seem to be heating up. A messenger told me today that
Oberon was calling a meeting this afternoon of family members and various
associated people, including Serena. I dressed in my Lancer's uniform with
the Badge of Arden. Serena dressed in one of her formal ambassador's
outfits.  The meeting was in the library. It included all the usual people,
as well as Corwin (whom I had not seen in several months). I spoke with
Corwin briefly before the meeting started. He told me that Cassandra had
been off filling in some gaps in her education, but she would be here soon.
"I also have surprise for her," he said. "While she was away, Darhyse had a
litter of kittens." He seemed nervous. "I was wondering -- would you be
willing to tell her about them?"

"Why me?"

"I don't know her very well."

"You've known her much longer than I have."

"She's so young. I don't remember that age. I barely remember what it was
like to be your age."

"All right," I said.  He went to the back of the room and returned with a
bundle. It was a bag full of squirming black Sha'um kittens. They were
adorable. Serena immediately grabbed a couple and began playing with
them. We bundled them up and Serena took them into the next room to look
after them.  Others began to arrive -- Zack, Random, Orlando, Rhiannon,
Merlin, Benedict. Gerard came in with his very pregnant wife. Cassandra and
Ingold arrived, both wearing black uniforms with silver piping. Cassandra
looked several years older, and very tired. Auricle came in, looking
confused. Bleys carried the young Fiona in, piggyback. He looked
tousled. Oberon came in wearing full regalia with his scepter and went over
to speak with Benedict in low tones. Llewella came in, still wet, wearing
seashells and a g-string. She looked angry.  I chatted with Cassandra. She
said that she had just passed some sort of test. I congratulated her. She
showed me a short metal baton that she called a dark sabre, explaining that
it was some sort of energy sword weapon. She wasn't sure if it would work
here, and wasn't willing to test it right then. For her, it had been six
years since I had seen her last.  "Corwin asked me to tell you about a
surprise he has for you," I said.  "A surprise? Why didn't he tell me
himself?"

"He thought it would be better coming from me."

Her eyes narrowed. "What?"

"Darhyse has had kittens."

"What? Where is she? Where are they?"

"I don't know where Darhyse is. The kittens are in the next room. Serena's
with them."

I showed her to the room with the kittens. They were everywhere, despite
Serena's best efforts to keep them under control. Cassandra came in and
immediately began scooping them up. There were eleven of them, I think. She
formed her cloak into a large bag and put them all in. We went back into
the classroom.  Oberon finally banged his scepter a couple of times to gain
everyone's attention. "You may be wondering why I've called you here
today. I am here to report that we seem to have come across a time when the
universe as we know it is destabilizing. This has been happening since
Brand's insanity, and has recently begun to accelerate. I would appreciate
your help. I know this family has trouble getting along sometimes," -- he
looked sharply at Zack and Valeria -- "and I ask that you assist as best
you can."

Everyone began to speak at once. Shortly, Oberon banged his scepter to
quiet things.  "What should be done about this?" asked Auricle.  "I don't
know what to do about it," Oberon said. " I'm willing to entertain
suggestions."

"What are the indications of reality being torn apart?" Rhiannon asked.
"Brand going insane, Hendrake attacking Amber for no reason, Clarissa is
having troubles with her opposite (looks at Zack). Some of the others are
having troubles as well. Time is being rewritten."

"I have been noticing interesting effects in shadow when the family
travels," Rhiannon said.  Someone -- I think it was Zack -- asked whether
what had happened to Fiona was related to this.  "Actually," said Oberon,
"that's not Fiona."

The little girl in Fiona's guise stopped playing with Bleys, who stepped
carefully away from her.  "Is it Gwen?" Cassandra asked.  "No," he
said. "It's your cousin Dara, if she would stop clowning around." He looked
at her. "The truth is out."

Fiona, or Dara, or whoever she was stood looking at him, but saying
nothing.  "If that's Dara," Rivka said, "then where's Fiona?"

"As far as I can tell," Oberon said, "Fiona does not currently exist in
this continuum."

"Is that a clever euphemism for dead?" asked Zack. "Or do you mean
something else?"

"I can't even find her corpse," Oberon said. "On the other hand, these
people" -- he pointed to Ivy and Orlando -- "shouldn't exist at all."

"Does this mean you want her removed?" asked Cassandra.  "No," he
said. "She's family." He turned to face her. "You were invited here. Why
the subterfuge? Are you an agent of darkness?"

The little girl merely stood and stared at him.  "Fine then," said
Bleys. He waved his hands, and the little girl was transformed into a piece
of wood.  "So now what are we supposed to do," Oberon asked. "Hang hats on
her?

"That would be impolite," I said.  Around that time, Flora came in. "Am I
late?"

"You know the party never starts until you arrive," I told her.  "Oh,
good," she said with one of her stunning smiles. She took off her bonnet
and hung it on Dara.

"Well, that's a convenient way to keep her out of trouble," said Oberon,
"but it's hard to interrogate a hatrack. I suggest we meet en family with
experts from across shadow to determine how to deal with this." To Flora:
"Is everything ready for dinner?"

Flora curtsied. "Of course."

"Good. Then I suggest we -- " He stopped and stared into space. Then,
"Excuse me." The rainbow effect of Trump enveloped him and he was
gone. Most of the assembled family and friends looked uncomfortably at each
other.  Corwin and Merlin seemed dumbstruck. They simply stood there,
watching the hat rack that was, apparently, Dara. They didn't blink, and
there was even a bit of drool forming at the edge of Merlin's mouth.  (I
have noticed that the children of Faella tend to fall into a sort of
catatonic state when they are presented with a severe emotional stress. I
had previously observed it in Cassandra at the Abyss, and now Corwin and
Merlin. It may be a hereditary disease. I have, fortunately, never
succumbed to it, and hope I never do.)

People started talking again, ignoring the unresponsiveness of Merlin and
Corwin. Perhaps they all know about this ailment, and do not mention it in
polite company.

I spoke with Bleys and Zack. Bleys had not been able to detect any signs of
Gwen over the last six months. We had all noted that the Gwen statues had
all crumbled away. Paolo and Mikail, who might know something about Gwen,
had been unreachable for months.  Cassandra spoke to her father, who did
not respond. She waved a hand in front of his eyes. Nothing. She went over
to Dara and picked her up. No response. Angry, she threw Dara at
Corwin. Seemingly as a reflex, he drew Grayswandir and cut the piece of
wood in half. Then he sheathed Grayswandir and resumed his catatonic state.
"Does that make her dead?" I asked Bleys.  "I don't know," he said. "Do you
want to experiment?"

"No."

Zack picked up the pieces and tried to put them back together, without
noticeable success.  "I suggest we all go to dinner," I said. For the most
part, everyone ignored me. With a shrug, I headed out the door and toward
the dining hall. Some of the others followed.  The dining hall was
empty. Benedict was not available by Trump. I tried Oberon.  "One moment,"
he said, "I'm in the midst of negotiations."

I waited. He got to me in a few minutes, and I explained that the castle
seemed strangely empty.  "Nothing is wrong," he said. "Go to the formal
dining room." The contact faded away.  I went there and found Cassandra at
the entrance to the dining room.  "How is Corwin?" I asked her.  "Crazed,"
she said.  "I didn't know he still carried such a torch for Dara."

"I'm not sure what it is. I want to talk to him. If the universe is falling
apart, then what's happening to Pearl?"

"It is possible," I said, "that things are more stable near a Pattern, but
who knows?"

We went in. The formal dining room is not quite as large as the regular
dining hall, but it is quite large. There were almost a hundred people
there, including most of the Amber family. Looking around, I noticed the
absence of Benedict, Flora, and Oberon. There were many strange-looking
people there, including quite a few non-humans. Cassandra quickly got into
an argument with an idiot who called himself a "Jedi." He objected to her
presence, and Ingold's, in the uniforms they were wearing. She stared him
down for a few minutes, then something from his home dimension apparently
decided that he had been bad and needed to be spanked. A vortex appeared
around him and he was whisked away.  Various people tried the door and
found it impossible to open, even by magical means. Cassandra, Darhyse, and
I tried removing some of the stones that made up the wall. We found dark
nothingness beyond. Apparently, Oberon wanted us to stay here.  I wandered
around, listening to various discussions that led nowhere. Then Ingold came
and found me. "You busy?"

"No." He motioned for me to follow him, and I did.  Corwin had arrived
without my noticing. He was talking with Darkstar. Ingold cast a spell
around the group of us that, he said, would prevent eavesdropping. Nice
trick, that.  "Have you noticed," Corwin said, "that Oberon's story makes
no sense?"

"How do you mean?" I asked.  "If you were concerned that the universe were
falling apart, would you lock most of the wise and mighty in a room and
then go away?"

"No, I don't suppose I would. I'd try to gather information before calling
this kind of meeting. There aren't enough data. What are you suggesting?"

"I'm not sure. Maybe Oberon has gone mad. Maybe he's trying some kind of
power grab."

"Or maybe he just knows more than we do," I said, uncomfortable with the
direction this conversation was taking.  "I concede that possibility,
although he himself admitted to being out of his depth. I do think the
question should be raised."

"What do you think we should do?"

"I think we should look into the matter; check out his assertions."

"That would not be unreasonable. It even fits what he asked us to do."

"Yes it does."

"I should make clear," I said, "that I will not act against His Majesty
without clear proof that he is mad or working to harm the kingdom."

"I agree absolutely," he said. "I have no desire to make myself Oberon's
enemy."

"Then the thing to do," Darkstar said, "would be to examine places of power
such as Pattern and Logrus."

"And Ygg," Corwin suggested.  "It makes sense," I said. "As much as
anything in this business does."

"Then it seems we must leave this place," Darkstar said.  "I think that can
be arranged," Corwin said. "I also think that someone should try to get
some sense of Oberon's mind."

"Who knows his mind well enough to tell if he is mad?" I asked.  Darkstar
and Corwin looked at each other. "Clarissa," they said in unison.  "Who
should talk to Clarissa, then?" asked Ingold.  "I know she offered to tutor
Cassandra," I said. "She seems to like her. Maybe she would be the best one
to try."

"Good idea," Corwin said.  Ingold ended his privacy spell. I quickly
spotted Cassandra -- she said she was looking for Corwin. I brought her
over to him.  "Father," she said, "I think I know how to figure out what is
disturbing the universe."

"I don't have time to listen to your silly theory, Cassandra. I'm working
on something important."

Cassandra's face fell into a stony mask. "Very well," she said. "I won't
trouble you further." She walked off.  "Did I say something wrong?" he
asked.  "Corwin," I said, "you were an ass." I followed Cassandra. By the
time I caught up with her she had regained her composure.  "I just don't
understand him," she said. "He teaches me to be a soldier. He gives me
command of his army. Then he treats me like a five year old."

"From his perspective, the difference between five and fifteen is very
small."

"I just wish he'd make up his mind about me."

"He needs more time," I said. "I don't mean to excuse his behavior, but
you're growing up too fast for him to understand what's happening."

"I suppose."

"Anyway, I wanted to talk to you about a task."

"What sort of task?"

I drew her off into a corner. "We're not sure exactly what all this
means. This meeting, the changes he claims have occurred in Shadow. Oberon
may not have been entirely honest, or he may not be entirely himself."

"It does seem a little funny."

"We were hoping that you might speak with Clarissa about this matter. She's
the only one we can think of who could make a sound judgment about Oberon,
and she seems to like you."

She thought about it. "All right. I'll ask her about it."

"Good. Now we just need to figure out how to get out of here."

Corwin had thought of that. He spoke with Zack, who admitted that he could
open a faerie gate back into Shadow. With a little prodding, he agreed to
do so. He needed to conclude some business first, however. While I waited I
took a walk around the room. Dworkin was there, as well as Suhuy, the
Master of the Logrus. I was approached by two creatures wearing robes. They
were humanoid, but with strange facial features, including a single eye in
the shape of an hourglass.  "You do not belong here," one of them said to
me.  "What?"

"Yes," said the other. "You are not scheduled to exist in this timestream
until later."

They walked off. "Wait," I said. "What do you mean?"

I followed them, but they would say no more to me.  Soon thereafter, Zack
was ready. We found an unoccupied corner and he transported us to
Faerie. Queen Titania came with us, along with Rivka. Once in Faerie, they,
along with Zack, went their own way. We took a gate into Shadow that Zack
had pointed out. Once there, we decided to split up. Corwin and Ingold
would go to Amber's Primal Pattern. Darkstar would examine the
Logrus. Cassandra and I would go to Ygg. Later I realized that Corwin
deliberately avoided sending Cassandra anywhere near a Pattern, for fear
that she might be tempted to walk it.  Cassandra and I spent a pleasant
time traveling. Ygg was not too far, perhaps a day of hard
riding. Bucephalus was sadly back in Amber, but I found a palomino mare who
tolerated shadow travel fairly well. Cassandra rode Darhyse. She carried
with her the bag of kittens, who proved somewhat difficult to manage.  When
we arrived at Ygg, all seemed as it had the last time we had seen
it. Cassandra said that a painting left leaning against Ygg's trunk had
moved slightly. That would suggest a slight progression of the tree toward
the direction of Chaos. We couldn't figure out what that might mean, and a
brief discussion with Ygg provided no insights.  From here, we could not
quite reach the castle via Trump. We traveled through Shadow for several
hours toward Amber, then used the card to transport ourselves the rest of
the way. It was late at night. Cassandra said that she had some business to
conduct, and would get in touch with me when she could. Weary, I went up to
my room and went to bed. 

* * *

I wanted to sleep in the next morning, but there were some things I needed
to check on instead. I got up and had breakfast. None of the family were
there. I saw Serena and planned to meet on the castle wall a bit later for
a tour of the vineyards. After breakfast I took out my cards and tried
Corwin. He was asleep. I tried Zack, but he seemed too far away. I put the
cards away and wandered for a bit. I saw Lord Rein and asked about current
events.
