Jean is pulled in by Ilk to talk to Cyndia

The Jean conglomerate is explained to her, and she carves a chair for
Jean to sit on.

Cyndia warns a guild member Gordo has declined to fight her - so she
is suspicious.

Ilk asks about the whale - Jean realizes he hasn't seen her in some
time, and that the saurons and saucers that were there are no longer
there.  Or anywhere, it seems.

Orm grabs a Jean and heads to Earthsea, birthplace of Caelin. Yay. Orm
spits up Jean underwater.  Jean sees the whale, who is skulking near
the bottom with her children.

Jean talks to the Dworkins for help, who volunteer to fish to Chaos
and check out the whale there.

The hamsters arrive in Earthsea, and are wet and unhappy.  A bubble
appears, and they dry.  They return to Ferethyn's ways, and
redworkin. After they pull out different sized jewels, the dworkins
figure out which one is this.  They go to the badgerverse, and the
whale comes along with.  The Dworkins begin their examination, but
then Ilk brings the whale's children through in their own floating
water bubbles.

The whale hybrids look a bit like whale/dragon hybrids.  Jean raises a
saucery eyebrow. Jean explains where the Dworkins went to Gentleman
Suhuy when he returns from the bathroom.

A third Dworkin is escorted from the whale after the first two check
out the whale, and it's the super crazy one. Some conversation happens.

The crazy dworkin, with difficulty, remembers the time before.  The
Dormouse was at his son's funeral.  Oberon's funeral composed of
Dworkin, the Dormouse, Dworkin, and Alice. Alice was Oberon's wife,
the Dormouse was their son. Rabbits ate the Dormouse.

Discuss reality and history with Alice - who was Dworkin's oldest
child, and married Oberon because well, it was him or Dworkin.  Oberon
killed the Dormouse out of jealousy, because he didn't think the
Dormouse was his son.
