Jean checks with Snarsht - the whagon is dead dead, and cannot be revived. 

Snarsht is not interested in being King of Amber, and says that
Neville died undrawing the Pattern - no, really.  Jean agrees with
Snarsht that is what he said. Snarsht suggests strongly that 

Jean looks for Flora.  He doesn't see her.  Vialle says she stepped
out, something about a favor for someone on Drageara. He lets the
Dancer's Guild know he's looking for Flora.

Dworkin asks Jean for a second person (either Gentleman Suhuy or
Hamster Dworkin) to help move the net so someone can walk the Spiral.

Ecto-Ilk arrives, and discusses bows with Dworkin (apprentice to
family, Dworkin's brother). Dworkin asks Jean about a candidate, Jean
checks with Cera of Cobalt (Kiera), the young woman (a mere century or
two) who asked him for help.

Dworkin talks to Ilk about the Dragearan who is the candidate.
Dworkin shifts to a Jean makes a mental note that Dworkin's sanity is
starting to slip.

The Phoenix Dragearan tries to convince his power well not to orbit
him while he walks the Spiral.  He fails.  It's a golden orb, and not
unalive - just power. Someone else intercedes.

The Phoenix walks the Spiral.  Time passes.

Caelin says "But I..." and disappears. The Phoenix completes the
Spiral.  He is invited to a "family party" by Cera.

Dworkin creates a halibut. Jean takes it and puts it in a pond in
Cobalt, and takes care of it.

Dworkin is fished to the badgerverse, where he's still crazy.  And
getting crazier.  He somehow creates a pattern on the easel that Ilk
has conjured for him.  Ilk says that to delay moving Dworkin to the
next universe, because he has to do some research.  Jean distracts
Dworkin.

Jean decides to talk to REN and both warn him Dworkin is now local and
ask for help in distracting him.  REN suggests a juggling festival,
and they both set things up.


