Baby dragon asks - "How does one distract the Serpent's apprentice -
just for a short span of time."

Kintani suggests smacking the dragon - distracting the serpent's
apprentice is never good, unless the Serpent says to do it.  On the
other hand, if you actually wanted to do it, tell him Caelin's loose.

Jean smacks the dragon on the nose with rolled up newspaper - who
thinks it's a great idea, and runs off into the sea of chance with the
newspaper.  The dragon returns for a larger newspaper, and for more
newspaper.  Later, a gang of baby dragons return the large roll of
newsprint.  (Polite, but dumb.)

Hamster Osric pilots a jean saucer over to where Princess Chandra and
the Serpent's Apprentice are.

Jean realizes that the giant beanstalk is Unalive, and he introduces
himself.  The stalk is a collective; they explain that they were a
center of a plant.  They are curious how Jean is talking to them; Jean
explains it is the Power of Unlife!

Jean is surprised that the plant is unalive, because the plant should
be alive, dead, or an undead zombie plant.  The collective explains
that the plant wanted to be a zombie plant, but they pushed it in
another way.  Jean says that he's gone that way some time ago, and it
was fun.

Jean asks Princess Chandra if he can keep him.  Princess Chandra asks
for more information; Jean explains that the Kraken is an unalive
collective.  Princess Chandra suspiciously asks Jean if he can ask for
members of the collective - said collective denys having membership
lists or a newsletter.

The collective decides to take over Jean; Jeans warns Princess Chandra
that they're hostile, and clears out.  Hamster Osric guides Jean out
past several Logrus tendrils.  The beanstalk later collapses. Princess
Chandra passes Jean, muttering about a shower, and tells Jean it's
safe.
