Kintani asks Jean to bring the self-medicating Caelin clone to House
Cara so he can learn how to self-medicate better.  Jean can't fish
him, the original whale is still busy, but there is a new whale.
However, Jean does not trust Eagleton quite so much.

Jean talks to Ilk, who pulls Dr. Eagleton through Jean into House
Cara.

Verra decides to bring Mandor's sister to meet him, and says she'll
meet Jean here. Verra differentiates Mandor-the-brother and
Jean-the-brother, which involves explaining some saucers to a confused
girl.  There is some discussion of how Chaosians calculate relation
(she and Jean are brothers) and how she calculates them (not related
at all).

Verra and Bevin talk about shapeshifting.  Verra helps Bevin
shapeshift into a Dzur, and also something else.  Verra opens a hole
into the Void, says that she'll see Jean in a few seconds.

In Mandor's rooms, Verra, Amon, and Bevin arrive.  Mandor, Jean, and
other people are in the room playing cards.  Verra introduces Bevin,
and bowing happens (Bevin doesn't know Chaosian bows).

Mandor requests a shifter who is behind on his dues - Jean arranges
with REN to have a shifter come over.  Three shifters arrive at Jean's
room and ask about conditions - they've learned to worry about such
things. They're told it's Mandorways, so they pick the one with the
best palate.

The shifter arrives in the guise of the footman introducing him.  The
shifter gives Bevan and Amon some lessons (always shift forward,
shifting away can unravel you).  Bevan defurs herself, and Amon
briefly shifts into a hairy frisbee.  Bevin shifts into a bird, which
is too small to sustain shapeshifting, and the shifter warns Amon
about that.  The shifter apparently generates the feeling of Snarsht,
and she shifts back into a jackal.


