## Calla's Pattern Walk - 2002-01-23

Calla and Gil are charged by the King of Chaos (Caine) to follow King Eric II.  It's decided that Calla needs to walk the pattern to be effective, Janus takes Calla to Jean for transport to Amber.

There is a speed-bump on the Amber Pattern.  Janus take Calla to the primal pattern.  Janus tells Calla to take on the centepede so they can take on the pattern.  She asks Janus to run distraction.  They both fail, miserably, and are ejected, through the caverns, into the sea outside Castle Amber.

Janus goes back to try again, and continues to fail.  The third time, he is expelled on a stream of Alchohol, Calla decides to ask Jean for help at this point.  He tells her that the Centepede is called Wixer, turns it off, and takes care of Janus.  Calla walks the pattern.  There is much wailing and gnashing of teeth.

After she reaches the center of the patttern, she is transported to Gil, at her wish, who happens to be under Nevil's bed, surrounded by Gnasty Gnives.  Chased by such, she escapes into House Helgram proper, and then shadow walks into House Cara.

## Calla inadvertantly parties down - 2002-02-19

Calla has fled to house Cara, finding the door she exits the house and enters the never ending party. As she enters the party she is acosted by King Caine and badgered for the where abouts of King Eric. Calla decides that a trump deck is in order (the better to tak to to Gil with.) She talks Jean into getting a trump for her. He borrows his mom's deck and gets sane Dworkin to copy it. It is *way* basic, so Jean wakes Janus from his stupor and asks him for his deck. Janus only gives Jean his and Gil's trumps. Calla's uses her new trump card to contact her father so as to cocerce him into more trumps. She imediately gets secondhand drunk,and then asks Jean for Neville gets him to wake hamster Gerard and send a message to Neville (via wombat.)

## Calla and Jean team up - 2002-03-20

Calla finishes her chat with Dworkin and asks Jean to go back to Neville with her, but neglects to ask Jean to give her a ride back. Jean catches her anyway. Jean asks Neville about his Gnasty Gnives (their whereabouts, the soulless husks in chaos, ect.) Neville in turn asks Calla if she has had anything to do with his bed. Calla confesses to shadow walking into his room while looking for him. Neville starts trumping his knives and as he trumps one of them under his bed Calla realizes that she *really* needs to talk to Gil, like right *now*. Calla asks Jean to take her to Chaos, he does. She then asks to be dropped at house Helgram, Jean trys but it isn't where it used to be so they go to house Cara  where they are recognized and greeted, Calla trys to trump Gil and fails before jean points out that house Helgram has moved to Amber, at which point Calla sighs and asks Jean to take her back. As she disembarks a figure stumbles past her out of the whale, Jean realizes it is a guest from house Cara and herds them back into the whale before they are *too* reality poisioned. Calla then trumps Gil, as she does so she sees Neville fly past on his way to go see Shnarscht, who is sitting on top of house Helgram. Calla informs Gil of both Neville and house Helgram's current whereabouts and advises Gil to get out after explaining that Neville probably has suspicions about Gil's whereabouts. Gill allows Calla to pull her through the trump. As Gil comes through Calla notices the Moraganti on her and informs her that she might want to get rid of it or at least train it to shape shift and  name it quickly if she was intending on keeping it. Gil opts to turn it loose and call it back later. Jean then informs them that Neville and Schnarsht are headed this way for a meeting with the Morgantis and that he was planning to pull back and that they might want to follow suit. Gil is unfazed but Calla believes retreat is a good plan so the sisters switch Neville watch and Calla plans with Jean to go back to the reality engine and do some clean up as she has realized that the dead bodies, ect. might be a tip off to Julian's forces. So Jean writes notes to Gil and Janus for Calla to tell them where they went and why. When they got there Jean realizes that his soldier Jeans are hungry and so is Calla so he brings in food fo rhtem all. Jean then decides to do a spot of exploring and promptly gets spacked. Calla asks what happened to saucer Jean and he explains the concept of Jean deaths as well as the jello reality explaination. And who Gwen is BTW. Calla then takes charge and sets up a marching order, but as they open the door to go down she hears hundreds of soldiers downstairs and orders a full retreat. Calla now wants reinforcments, Jean asks his sister for mages, they can't function in that area so it was back to the drawing board when Jean suddenly realized he had an army. Calla is then pleasantly supprised by the well trained troops that he provides, and then they explain where they came from. (Calin's failed assasin body guards) the assasins scout and deliver information about the present situation, many soldiers scouring the area in search of enemies, rooms of death, and a leader uncaring of losses. Calla, and Jean speculate about the leader and work up objectives when suddenly the assasin leader notices a statuary moving, Jean tests the statuary by making dancer signals at it at which point it stomps him mercilessly. They all retreat inside the hill, Calla lays out objectives and plans a retreat to Amber with plans to check in on the mess shortly. Jean makes provisions for a demoltions team to destroy the statuary.

## Calla is asked to clean up after Neville - 2002-05-01

Calla recieves a trump call in Pride's Folly and while she tries to resist she fails miserably and is contacted by Neville. Calla then informs him that she is not really supposed to be comunicating via trump on Dworkin's advice. Neville notes this and proceeds to ignore it, and to try to rope Calla into cleaning up Pride's Folly for him. Calla declines to make any decisions without consulting her father and sister. Neville is slightly miffed and demands to know why she has to consult with her sister. Calla explains that her plate is currently full and that if she were to take something else on then she would have to drop something else and that responsiblity would most likely fall to Gil and therefore Gil *did* have a stake in the decision. Neville aknowledged that Calla was right and accepted Calla's offer of continued supervision of the situation for the time being and a further decision at a later date. Calla then contacted her father via Jean and Janus' suggestion was that neither Calla nor Jean accept responsibility for Pride's Folly until it was clear whether or not the head of the Creationist's Guild was mad about losing his members there while Neville was in charge, because it was *bad* to have a guild head pissy at you. Janus also confirmed that any work on said project should come with a reward of some kind. Calla also asked Jean to mention Neville's offer about the Amber defenses at which point Jean pointed out this was Zack's job and "where the hell was Zack anyway?" and went off to ask Neville about that. Calla agreed to sit tight and await futher developments.
