## Cedrick Greene

Part of the [Inzalo](InzaloShadowEarth) run.

Cedrick is a peaceful man with a heart of gold. Physically, he is
comfortably fit, just over six foot tall, with long dark hair, and a
beard. His love for ancient history has taken him to pick up many
hobbies and skills that the average person wouldn't otherwise
have. While he could be considered nerdy and geeky for his love of
science fiction and games, as an active member of a Viking recreation
group, with friends all over the world, he is very handy in the
outdoors.  Armed with little more than a knife and a ferro rod Cedrick
wouldn't just survive but thrive in the wild and while things might
not go according to plan, they do work out in the end. In this way
Cedrick always thinks of himself as favored by fate, or he's just
lucky but who's to know?

For the last couple years, Cedrick decided to try out a bit of a fad
that has being going on, being a traveler! He would set out with
nothing more than what he could fit into a hiking backpack and set out
to travel the world with his own two feet and the kindness of
others. Luckily, he had made some very good financial moves before the
2008 recession, which coupled with his trust fund, meant that while he
was no Bruce Wayne, he didn't have to worry about financing this
little adventure. But his plan involved using as little money as
possible while going from place to place.

Something Cedrick excels at is his art, his command of shapes, colors,
and materials borders on the extraordinary. In fact there are many of
his works on display under the pseudonym, The Geist. As his name sake
suggests he acts as a ghost, never showing his face or being known
publicly for who he is. Always working through intermediaries and dead
drops. While he has sold some of his works to the incredibly wealthy,
random street vendors selling cheap copies will find an original Geist
on their stand. In the art world, finding out where the next Geist
piece will appear could land you a windfall.

The reason The Geist's art is so sought after is that there is no
confusing a copy for the real thing. Even if every stroke was
identical and the exact paint was replicated. A person can look at an
original Geist and feel as if they were looking at a segment of
reality they could step into no matter how fantastical the
environment.

There is a network of The Geist fanbase, some of them more obsessed
than others. Many a betting pool on where the next piece will show up
has happened, and sometimes someeone even wins now and again. Several
times someone has claimed to track The Geist, but, every time it turns
out to be either someone's ego getting the better of them, or a red
herring. There is the time that someone popped up, claiming to be The
Geist, and managed to fool some people until a real new The Geist
piece appeared on a stone wall, 30 feet tall, halfway across the world
from where this fraudster was in the midst of giving a live
presentation.  Much scandal happened.  Dissapointed fans are
apparently quite vindictive.

He also makes wooden carvings and jewelry as the mood suits him.

Born in 1982.

The international Viking recreation group that he is part of is quite
delighted when he makes the various moots.  He is known to travel to
them, and folks are always eager to recieve him, wherever in the world
they are happening.  Various folks from it chatter with him about
projects on a daily basis.

He is often in the company of [Eir](RavenEir), a raven of impeccable
taste.
