## Chumley Metrodora

Part of the [Inzalo](InzaloShadowEarth) run.

Chumley is a big guy easily 7’4” (220cm) and built like a linebacker
or Andre the Giant. Looking at him, you question if he will open a
door, or just walk through it.  He has long black hair, he keeps in a
ponytail, a well-groomed beard, and mustache.  He wears glasses, that
seem to change with his mood, and needs.  While he will dress for
occasions, he is most comfortable in boots, jeans, t-shirt, and
hoodie.  And almost always has a shoulder bag or backpack.

A quiet geeky sort, who is just as happy to play with numbers and
fibers as he is to play in a machine shop with wood and metal.  While
he enjoys traveling, he is just as happy to haunt the local
establishments closer to home.  While not much is known about
Chumley’s history, he is rumored to have taken on many jobs and
hobbies, including fireworks, stick fighting, Digital Imagery,
Emergency Field Medicine, and Security.

Considers a Sledgehammer to be his spirit animal.

He is very proud of his adopted niece [Kiara](KiaraUmbrielle), and has
been known to visit his dear friend [Nova](NovaUmbrielle) once a year,
on her birthday, regardless of her comfort in his visits.

Born July 12, 1974, he is the son of [Phil](PhillipMetrodora) and
Elaine, and eldest brother of his brother and sister (to be named
later.)

Elaine has passed on due to cancer.  He often visits her grave yearly
on her birthday when he is not otherwise deployed, joining his father
and those of his siblings who can make it. They picnic by her grave,
and catch her up with what they did across the year.

Military record: JROTC in high school ('90-'92), enlisted in the
Marines, and joined their War College at Quantico by invitation into
their fourth class. Promoted a number of times, often at the
insistence and with glowing reports from not only his superiors but
his peers as well. Amongst them are the United Nations Medal, due to
his work with UNMIK in Kosovo, a Bronze star for the incident with
[Marcus](MarcusUmbrielle), where he helping with the evacuation under
fire, in Iraq, as well as the Joint Meritorious Unit Award for other
actions in Iraq, and a Good Conduct Medal, for actions in Japan. There
is also a National Defense Service Medal, and a Joint Service
Commendation Medal from the US and the Dorder of the Rising Sun
(second class) from Japan, for undisclosed actions while working with
the State Department in an undisclosed matter.  He retired with a full
bird Colonel in 2012.

Post military, he works for Kodak labs, and volunteers for the local
EMT group.
