## Drashir "Drae" Blitzen

Part of the [Inzalo](InzaloShadowEarth) run.

A gentleman of a medium build walking slowly into his middle years,
Drae has a calming demeanor as if a bamboo reed studied to be a
bartender. His kind brown eyes always stay as such, even when an
exasperated sigh graces his features. Always in a black-on-black
ensemble of dress pants, a button-down shirt with sleeves rolled up,
and suede sneakers, Drae can either command the attention of the room
or fade into the background. His rimless black glasses complete the
effect of a knowledgeable person by the standards of society. His
positive demeanor drops an octave when the conversation turns to the
business of a more visceral nature. It is then that his
shoulder-length dreadlocks are pulled into a ponytail and he is here
to talk, about tactics, resources, options, and victory.

He is the owner and operator of a high-end "gym" in downtown Manhattan. 
Climbing walls, dojo, and Circus Arts.  Strong personality.  Skillful
teacher.  Good judge of character. [Helen](HelenWait) is the main
receptionist there.

He is the secret owner and operator, through several LLCs of a
high-end "escape room" facility, in one of the warehouse buildings in
Manhattan. There are a number of actual secure rooms and interview
rooms and the like hidden amongst the puzzle rooms.

He has several [Teams](DrashirStrikeTeams) working for him.  As well
as some free-lance consultants.

### History of The Immaculate Tactitician

This is the tale of a man who has lived 3 lives.

The first life started when he was kidnapped at birth for having
superior genetic traits. Taken by "General" Amaro Dante (The greatest
tactical mind that no one has ever heard of ... by his design) to sire
him an heir with his "daughter" Renia Donner. Renia was adopted in the
same way as Drashir. The two were raised as apprentices to the
General's vast knowledge of warfare in its various forms. Playing
games of strategy and being read "The Art of War" at bedtime, Drashir
and Renia were trained in both rigorous and subtle methods for over 15
years. Kept in a type of captivity, they had a constantly rotating and
never-ending set of tutors to teach them weapons, navigation, maps,
and psychological warfare. At 10, they understood interrogation
techniques and how to withstand them. at 13, they had commanded small
strike teams over radios in third-world countries to victory. at 15,
they had run multiple ops in person, as both soldiers and
commanders. The kids only had the General as their constant. Caring,
but cold, methodical, and always quizzing them. The two had friendship
grow into camaraderie, and then to trust... and then to love. As the
General planned.

Drashir felt the rebellion after his 16th birthday. More than aware
that he was in a gilded cage, but also in love with Rania (was it
love? Was it control?) he started to feel the irritation of his
bonds. When the General saw that Drashir was rebelling, he gave him an
impossible choice to stay by his side. But it would have meant Rania's
life. So, he chose an unseen alternative. He escaped and made it
appear that he was a traitor to the cause. This play kept her alive
but meant she was furious at him for his perceived betrayal.

Drashir's second life began in China. hiding there to be out of the
Gereral's sphere of influence (as much as that is possible) After 3
years at the Shaolin temple, he moves slowly towards Japan, learning
where he could, and taking on small missions where he could be an
unknown part of the willing team. Through these years, he learned how
to use his training in more subtle ways, shifting the battle to
victory with tactical gusts as small as a butterfly's wing, but as
precise as a surgeon's scalpel. This continued until he found himself
at the secret dojo of Masamune Musashi. Mostly known for his skill
with Sword and Bow, Masamune-sama was also a great swordmaker. Drashir
proved himself worthy of tutelage and spent the next 5 years committed
to the arts. With his Master's permission, Drashir would go out into
the world to learn of the changes outside and take infrequent missions
to help maintain his reputation and amass favors. Finally, it was time
for him to become more than the legacies of his forefathers. He
intended to go to America and make his own way. Before leaving,
Masamune-sama named Drashir his successor and reminded him to improve
the style as he always had to make it his own.

The third life began with the benefits of the second. Decently paying
jobs plus a monk's minimalist lifestyle, times sound investments
allowed for Drashir (now going as "Drae") to come to New York with a
larger nest of finances, as well as a plethora of favors to cash
in. Within 2 years, he was known as a very capable teammate and
tactician. Never needing to be the leader, but always ready to step to
the plate, Drae was respected by egotistical warlords who wanted to be
seen as strong as well as by lazy mercs who wanted a person to carry
them to victory. He soon was able to run his "Consulting Tactitian"
business, where he clandestinely offers advice and strategies for
everyone, if they can pay his price. From fledgling cat burglars
looking for their first score to governments trying to reorganize
their defense by shifting troop placements. If you know and are
willing to honor the deal, Drae's door may be open. All of this
planning hasn't stopped him from running missions that he feels are
worthwhile. Out in the field, many have come to respect and fear him
as Drae and his secret alter-ego "Blitz". Known only to the highest
bidders and most trusted associates to whom a favor is owed. Blitz is
hired out when you need a mission done, no matter what. Of those who
have heard of him, many believe Blitz is Drae's star employee. Less
than 10 living people know the truth.

Still on the run from the General and Rania, Drashir Blitzen is
running his own shadowgame, helping those he deems worthy, and
refining the art of the deal. His friends may call for "Drae", his
enemies may curse the name of "Blitz" at the end of their lives, and
his possible new employers may make a deal with "Mr. Blitzen". No
matter which names you know him by, Drashir is infamously "The one you
call."
