## Good stuff, Bad stuff, and Zero Stuff, an explanation

There is a limit of +- 4 points of stuff possbile in this campaign.

The good stuff and bad stuff in this campaign is at a little variant
from standard Ameber campaigns

### Zero stuff

You make your own luck.  The universe plays fair with you, or no more
unfair than the random toss of dice.  Sometimes you are up, sometimes
you are down, but basically your decisions and choices shape your
destiny and Lady Luck never really notices you, one way or the other.

### 1 point good/bad stuff

One point of good stuff costs you one point.  One point of bad stuff
gives you one more point to play with.

The one point in stuff is all the little things.  For one point in
good stuff, when you show up at a bus stop, there is always a bus just
about to pull up, your line is always the fastest moving one, there is
always an elevator just as you press the button, and the like.

For one point in bad stuff the exact opposite is true, your line is
always the one that moves the slowest, the bus just came if you are
right on time or a hair late, if you are early that's the bus that is
late, there is never an elevator waiting, it will always take a bit,
etc.

### 2-4 points of good/bad stuff

This is the meat of the luck.  

For good stuff, the bus you miss?  That's the one that gets robbed.
The flight you miss is the one that crashes before it reaches it's
destination.  The random person who bumps into you, will be important
to your quest.  The pack you found will either have in it exactly what
you are looking for, or belong to the person you really needed to
meet, when you return it to them.  It is like riding the syncronicity
highway.  You live a somewhat to very charmed life.  Life is easy for
you, and those around you.  Especially if you take the lead.

For bad stuff, you are always on the wrong foot, have the wrong tool
for the job, accidently annoy the person you were supposed to get
information from, or have as an ally or compatriot in your quest, at
the extremes, the inn you finally found to fall asleep in, after
having been up for days straight?  It gets set on fire in the middle
of the night due to a drunken brawl you had nothing at all to do
with. Things like that always happen to you.  Your life is never easy,
never boring, and often dangerous for you and those around you.
Especialy if you take the lead.

Often the amount of stuff one has effects the personality of the
person who has the good or bad stuff.

### 5 or more points good/bad stuff

Anything 5 points or more in either direction, and you were either too
lucky to be caught up in the game, or you were so unlucky you didn't
survive long enough to be around to join it.
