## Eir the Raven

Part of the [Inzalo](InzaloShadowEarth) run.

One day, in a remote area of the Rockies, Eir swooped in to steal the
rabbit that was about to get caught [Cedrick's](CedrickGreene) trap.
He was somewhat peeved (and hungry) so he shouted at Eir, and was
somewhat startled when she shouted back.  And even more startled when
Eir dropped half the rabbit at his feet.

Over the next week, Eir occasionally gave more presents of half game
animals, until one day she chased a multi-point buck right into one of
his traps, and then just waited for him to dispatch it.

They both ate well for several days after. Random self-conversation by
Cedrick was answered by her, startling Cedrick at first, but,
eventually he just accepted the conversational partner.  Their
partnership grew from there.

When that particular trip was done, and Cedrick said goodbye, Eir
asked "Why goodbye?" and Cedrick's explanation of going on to your
next destination just brought laughter. Having decided to adopt
Cedrick, Eir followed her new pet.  Happily stalking Cedrick through
cities, and being willing to ride an arm or shoulder and share food or
treasures as appropriate. She really seems to enjoy the respect and
honor the various Viking reenactiors give her, even being known to
show some favorites amongst them. But she always returns to her pet,
Cedrick.

One unfortunate fellow found out that grabbing Eir and trying to put
her in a cage is a really good way to lose nerve-function in his
hand. Since birds talk to one and other, every time he is out where
birds are, he has a miserable time of it. Because of them throwing
things at him, stealing from him, and generally making him miserable,
he has become somewhat of a shut-in. His delivered packages are often
well painted, by whatever local birds are around.

Eir is often closed-beak around other people, unless extremely
startled, when she might shout a word or two in surprise. But Eir is
never profane. An occasional "gosh darn" or "heck" but not stronger
than that, and the English she speeks sounds like slightly archaic
southern US in origin.

Her sense of humor is small, but existent, and also has a strong sense
of vengeance, and has happily "painted" windshields (or unprotected
heads) of those who have done things to annoy her Cedrick, like cut
him off in traffic, diss his art, or the like.  And she occasionally
has recruited other black birds to join in on the fun, including
sitting one on each shoulder for moots, once the Odin reference was
explained. At one point, one of the other members of a Moot was
annoying Cedrick, so she flew over, landed on the other side of that
person's car, and kept making the car-alarm noises. Just because she
could.
