## Sally Metrodora

Part of the [Inzalo](InzaloShadowEarth) run.

Daughter of Alexander (Alex) and Broomhilde (Hilda) Metrodora, and
sister to Annette.

Born ?? she is a dark-haired, dark-eyed 5'2" muscular young lady with
an intensity that sets some people off.  Introvert and tomboy, was
never good at making friends. Was more often found with her nose in a
book, or her hands in the innards of some piece of equipment, than
anything else.  Her love for tools, and pockets often got her in trouble
in school.  Was supported by her father even though he never really
understood her.  Her mother wanted a daughter that she could do
daughter things with, so she was pretty much ignored by her mother.

Graduated near the top of her class from high school, with almost no
friends outside of a few of the teachers.  And won a scholarship to a
voc-tech school. Being the only female in the school was overcome by
her persistence.  George (a stutterer, and therefore often also not on
the in group) was a project partner, which lead to a connection with
his robotics group. Which lead to an introduction of one of the
robotics group (Roger) to her younger sister (Annette).

George's interest in his housekeepers daughter Carlotta, got the group
involved in tracking down and busting a human trafficking ring, which
got Sally her introduction to the FBI human trafficking group. This
got her foot in the door to the FBI training academy.

Her career in the FBI did not go well. Despite all the hazing and
attempts to get her to drop out by her classmates, she graduated at
the top of her academy class. Her reward was to be put on a desk,
under a misogynist boss, dealing with the civilian complaint line,
with no hope of promotion, or the ability to change tracts without her
boss' sign-off.  Also she had to follow a dress-code that applied to
no one else, had three write-ups, and was suggested that the FBI
wasn't a good fit for her, ans she should seek employment elsewhere.

More details in the 2024-04-06 Background Run between Chumley and
Kiara.
