Snarsht, the head of the [Beastmasters](BeastmastersGuild) [Guild](ChaosGuilds#beastmasters), is the reason there are cats.  He is also the reason there are no bells in Chaos; for he chases them. He does not get along entirely well with [Dworkin](DworkinOfAmber) who is a more fishy person.

Snarsht changes size quite radically - from small kitty-cat to nuclear-carrier-scale cat - but generally tends to stay felinoid.  Even his larger forms tend to fit in smaller spaces than they should, although there is an aircraft-carrier scaled pace in [Thelbane](CastleThelbane). (He has been known to use a lizard form during an attempted coup at the [Beastmasters Guild](BeastmastersGuild).)  Snarsht has acknowledged a vague ancestral relationship with the Sha'um and the Morganti Kittens.  It is believed that Snarsht founded the [Healers](HealersGuild) [Guild](ChaosGuilds#healers) so that he would have fewer demands on his time; the re-formed [Healers Guild](HealersGuild) is under his tutelage.

In the past, Snarsht has kept [Tir na nog'th](ShadowKolvir) from fading out while the moon was blocked by cloud (the PC theory is that [Tir](ShadowKolvir) was afraid of upsetting Snarsht).  After getting bored playing with [Hillbilly Dworkin](HillbillyDworkin) (locked inside a [Fringe](PowersBalancesAndOpposites) Power crystal with bells attached), he buried him between Shadows for later playing.  (At [Shiryu](RealmsMasterShiryu)'s insistence, [Hillbilly Dworkin](HillbillyDworkin) was moved onto a promontory before the [Shadow Purge](ShadowPurge).)

Snarsht's rivalry with [Rainbow](RainbowOfDancers) is legendary and long-lasting, and he is believed to be responsible for the Fudgesicles and the incidents surrounding them.  [Rainbow](RainbowOfDancers) and Snarsht have recently buried the hatchet (with [Rainbow](RainbowOfDancers) conceding defeat) for the good of [Chaos](CourtsOfChaos) and the multiverse.

After the [Shadow Purge](ShadowPurge), Snarsht, all but one member of the [Beastmasters Guild](BeastmastersGuild), and the [Healers Guild](HealersGuild) are all missing, presumed misplaced, probably in the same place, wherever that might be.
