## A Timeline of events:
Divisions of the game are taken from [the detailed log index](http://web.mit.edu/~dskern/www/amber/#index).

1. The [Before Times](BeforeTime), from before the creation of the local multiverse (as we know it) to [Chaos](CourtsOfChaos) declaring their most recent war with [Amber](KolvirPromontory#shadowkolvir).
2. [Pattern Fall](PatternFall), the events of the first series of Amber books ... until we [diverge](https://github.com/mrdkap/Amber/blob/master/divergent_point.md) at the end of _Courts of Chaos_, which marks the start of the game.
3. The [early days](EarlyDays) of the game, documented by [Malachi's](MalachaiOfCorwin) Journals and some game logs. This period includes rebuilding from [Pattern Fall](PatternFall), white statues appearing across reality, and [Chaos](CourtsOfChaos) filling with demons. This time is also known as "[Malachi](MalachaiOfCorwin) and the color-coded scary little girls".
4. [Oberon's](OberonOfDworkin) infamous Locked Room Party, ending after [Julian](JulianOfOberon) invades [Arden](KolvirPromontory).
5. Cross-reality hopping, when people discovered cracks in reality that led to other multiverses like the [Badgerverse](BadgerVerse), the [Hamsterverse](HamsterVerse), [Pride's Folly](PridesFolly), and [Hillbilly Amber](HillbillyAmber). Many of the discovered realities were alternate Amberverses.
6. [Cobalteans arrive in Chaos, Cathryne's Pattern Party, confronting Toram as the Big Bad](ToramTheBigBad).
7. [Jenoir's elevation](ToramTheBigBad#jenoirs-elevation-vs-toram) to head of the [Mage's Guild](MagesGuild) of [Chaos](CourtsOfChaos).
8. [A party, and Amber's Formal Court](ToramTheBigBad#party-and-amber-formal-court) run by [Queen Clarissa](ClarissaOfDarkover) and [Queen Paulette](CobalteanRoyalFamily#damiana).  [Malachi](MalachaiOfCorwin) is acknowledged as [Regent for the King of Amber](KingOfAmber). Formal court ends rapidly when [Evil Benedict](EvilBenedict) invades [Amber](KolvirPromontory#shadowkolvir).
9. War in [Chaos](CourtsOfChaos) ends.
10. [Shiryu](RealmsMasterShiryu) threatens to reboot reality if [Gwen](GwenOfDworkin) is not dealt with, and a large force of allies invades [Pride's Folly](PridesFolly) for a last attempt to save the multiverse from long-ignored plot. A diversionary force invades [Darkover](DarkoverPromontory) on what most think is a suicide mission.  [Gwen](GwenOfDworkin) is defeated, for the second time. Only [Princess Chandra](PrincessChandraOfAssassins), [Jenoir](JenoirOfMages), and [Pharaban](PharabanOfPharaban) survive the suicide mission to [Darkover](DarkoverPromontory). [More details](GwenTheBigBad)
11. Dealing with [Evil Benedict](EvilBenedict), the rise of [Dworkinetics](WhoIsWhereHamsterites#HampsterDworkin), [Gwen's](GwenOfDworkin) first reincarnation.
12. "Belated Cleanup 1: [Gwen](GwenOfDworkin), [Evil Titania](EvilTitania), [Ingold's](IngoldOfBenedict) Pattern, Rifts, [Evil Benedict](EvilBenedict), not-Snarsht, [Llewella](LlewellaOfOberon), and [House Barimen](HouseBarimen)"
13. "Meetings, Investigations, and Waffling"
14. "Belated Cleanup 2: [Darkover](DarkoverPromontory), [Mikail](MikailOfOberon), [Bronelle](BronelleOfPoisoners), [Toram's](ToramOfMages) Lands, the [Spiral](TheSpiral), [Silver Lyra](SilverLyra), [Oberon](OberonOfDworkin), ..."
15. The [ShadowPurge](ShadowPurge) - the [Black Council's](BlackCouncil) attack on the local [Serpent](SerpentOfChaos) destabilizes our local multiverse and most of [Shadow](ShadowPlaces) falls into the [Sea of Chance](SeaOfChance) and is destroyed, except those saved in handprints on [Kintani](DragonKintani), or otherwise rescued by [Old Lords](OldLord), or the like.
16. A new age dawns - the [Primal Pattern](PrimalPattern) and other Patterns are removed by [Ingold](IngoldOfBenedict),  and [Ferro](FerroOfDworkin). [Neville](NevilleOfEric) and [Auricle](AuricleOfTir) draws a new [Primal Pattern](NevilleAuriclePattern), re-creating [Shadow](ShadowPlaces) and creating a new [Amber](KolvirPromontory).
