From stormy@chess.Haven.ORG  Tue Jul 30 10:42:18 1996
Date: Tue, 30 Jul 1996 10:42:38 -0400
To: dkap@haven.org
Subject: Cobalt, one last time, maybe?
Reply-To: Stormy@haven.org
From: "Morgan at Deus Ex Machina, Ltd." <Stormy@haven.org>
 
                                                                                     
        It's almost eleven o'clock... in the morning. I wanted this ready
for tonight's game, so I worked hard on it. I think it's done now. All of
the folk listed have their children listed, and they're now in
chronological order.
                                                                                     
        Read it.
                                                                                     
        Zoom! Whoosh... *thud*
                                                                                     
                        - Stormy
                                                                                     
        Places:
                                                                                     
        Cobalt -- The city on the Mountain of Koevyr. Home of most of the
family, and location of the Spiral. Its symbol is a blue-tinged white great
cat rampant facing sinister, with bright metallic blue claws, eyes, and
teeth, usually depicted against a black background.
                                                                                     
        Sapphire -- The city beneath the waves, off the north coast,
perhaps 3 hours ride from Cobalt. It is reached by the Unitair.
                                                                                     
        Cerulean -- The city which appears in the skies above Cobalt at
sunrise, disappearing at sunset or whenever the sun is occluded. Prophetic
omens are a specialty, though most of the family consider it much the same
as a bad soap opera, and don't pay it much heed except in times of crisis.
Its people are insubstantial visions, though those who are particularly
psychically sensitive (or have the proper spells cast upon them) can hear
and speak with them.
 
        Azure Forest -- The forest spreading to the east of Koevyr, a vast
place which interpenetrates with other dimensions, particularly those with
forests, quite often.
 
        Lapis Lazuli -- Local dimensions in a network of trade and defenses
around Cobalt. A fairly loose confederation, which wields a fair amount of
power in Cobalt (as Dana, and then Aurelia encouraged friendly relations).
 
        Fractal Realm -- Opposed pole. There is a way to travel between
Cerulean and the Fractal Realm, involving a spell of invocation (calling
the way) cast at noon from the highest tower room in Cerulean.
Unfortunately, the room is rather small, and thus cannot be used to
transport large numbers of people.
 
 
        Things:
 
        The Gem of Fate -- Power artifact, which can be used by the wielder
for various far-reaching effects. May not be intelligent, but seems to have
an agenda of its own sometimes.
        The Cerulean Crown -- An artifact worn by Coral. It allows her to
hear and speak with the residents of Cerulean, and most of them recognize
and respect its wearer. It is theorized to be able to change shape (go ask
Coral). It is a sorcerous aid to spells and workings of a divinatory and/or
scrying sort.
 
        Water's Edge -- A magnificent blade, it is tied to Sapphire much as
the legends depict the connection between Camelot and Excalibre, and its
possession by Llewellyn is one of his strongest claims on the throne, as it
cannot be wielded against its will. It gives him a great deal of knowledge
of anything that touches `his' seas, and allows him to call up or put down
various sea phenomena (tsunami, whirlpool, geyser, etc.), as well as
allowing him communication with and the respect of creatures of the water.
 
        The Azure Staff -- Much as Water's Edge is to Sapphire, the Staff
is to the Azure Forest. Less powerful than the previous two, it allows
Julia knowledge of those who enter her forest, and allows her to
communicate with the creatures of the woodlands and the trees themselves.
She has learned how to communicate with her forces through it (the trees
transmitting her instructions), and can do so with virtually no chance of
being overheard. Whoever has it wields it only if they have the respect of
the trees. It can shapechange to a lance, and is nearly indestructible.
 
 
        The Royal Family: Name, age (in parentheses if dead or gone),
parentage, notes, and children if any.
 
Dana -- ???? Ancient, abdicated Queen of Cobalt. Designer of the Spiral. A
charming old lady, she is an old grandmotherly type. She doesn't get out
much anymore, and leaves the governance of Cobalt to her daughter. Mother
of Aurelia and Bast.
 
Aurelia -- ???, Daughter of Dana and an unknown elder god. Aura to her
friends, she rules Cobalt. She's an amazing one for taking care of problems
once they happen, but she tends not to foresee them. Powerful as all get
out. Current wielder of the Gem of Fate. Mother of Beryl, Ozma, Fiona,
Erica, Coral, Cynthia, Derek, Alia, Finndo, Blaze, Llewellyn, Brandy,
Flavius, Julia, Isis, Guinevere, and Chance.
 
Beryl -- 737, Daughter of Aura and Mortalius, the Warlord of the Fractal
Realm. Ancient Warrior. She is Master of Arms for Cobalt, and is the
coordinator for the defenses of that place with Cynthia, Finndo, and Julia,
also working closely with Ylwin (Marshal of Sapphire) and Lapis Lazuli's
force commanders. Mother of Beryllium and Pyar.
 
Ozma -- (714) Daughter of Aura and Mortalius. Dead. Mother of Osric.
 
Fiona -- (712) Daughter of Aura and Mortalius. Dead. Mother of Caerlas.
 
Erica -- 603, Daughter of Aura and Indra, a god of storms and rulership.
Diplomat par excellance. Her agents are were-black panthers. She was also
Heir Apparent before her recent incapacity, as Beryl removed herself from
consideration following the deaths of her sisters. A frequent Regent. She
was mortally injured during an expedition to find Chance, and is not
expected to recover. Mother of Beauregard, Francesca, and Valentine.
 
Coral -- 571, Daughter of Aura and Indra. She could have been a warrior to
rival Erica or Blaze, but has instead focused her attentions and energy on
Cerulean. Wearer of the Cerulean Crown. She is an accomplished
shapeshifter, poet, architect, musician, and the best fortune-teller of the
family. She's not a bad warrior, just nowhere near as good as she could be
if she put her mind to it. Mother of Carlos and Leo.
 
Cynthia -- 526, Daughter of Aura and Indra. A fascinating woman, she has
often been compared to a beautiful snake. She is usually encased in black
leather that would impress a cenobite. Admiral of the Northern Fleet.
Mother of Cyndia, Samantha, and Loviatar.
 
Derek -- 485, Son of Aura and Indra. Captain of the Palace Guard. Has a
thing for Coral, but she's oblivious. Wields an immense magical axe named
Syrbal, which can split mountains and cut canyons in flat land. She is
known for feats of tremendous feats of Endurance. Father of Francesca,
Hadrian, Flavius, Julia, Guinevere, and Damien.
 
Beauregard -- 399, Erica and Benedict's son. A PC. Father of Charlemagne,
Samantha, Catherine, and Natasha.
 
Caerlas -- (399) Fiona and Benedict's daughter. Dead. Mother of Hadrian.
 
Cyndia -- 399, Cynthia and Benedict's daughter. Also called Cindy. She has
inherited her mother's deviousness, but tends more to practical jokes than
torture. Not that her mother would torture anyone, mind you... Mother of
Charlemagne.
 
Carlos -- 399, Coral and Benedict's son. A shapeshifter as well, but far
more pragmatic than his mother. Has little interest in Cerulean.  Known for
his good taste in clothing, and his engineering skills. Father of Steven
and Jillian.
 
Osric -- (399) Ozma and Benedict's son. Dead.
                                                                                     
Beryllium -- 399, Beryl and Benedict's daughter. Saddled with the
unfortunate nickname of Berry, she's quite a level-headed warrior. She
bears a shape-shifting weapon (named Selar), which will become anything she
wishes it to as long as it fits the paradigms of whatever Shadow she is in.
Mother of Lauren and a stillborn child, after which she stopped having
children.
 
Alia -- 399, Daughter of Aura and Benedict. Head of the secret police in
Cobalt, running a Shadow of Florimel's organization. She is the assassin
who knows _every_thing. Rumored to be a full Shapeshifter. She is
frighteningly unemotional, and wholly uninterested
 
 
 
might be used as a lever against her.
 
Finndo -- 388, Son of Aura and Ptah, a Lord of Creation. Physical and
psychic powerhouse. The Wizard-Admiral of the Southern Fleet. Canny,
quick-witted, and beloved by the sailors under him, Finndo is happiest at
sea. He racks spells capable of recreating the ships in his fleet when
necessary. Father of Lauren, Isis, and Loviatar.
 
Francesca -- 382, Erica and Derek's daughter. She disdains the magical arts
in pursuit of more physically-oriented power, though she hasn't neglected
the family's own basic powers. She has not had another child after Jillian,
as her daughter's death hurt her deeply. She has been approached by Finndo
on the subject recently, though, and is considering it. Mother of Jillian.
 
 
Hadrian - 376, Caerlas and Derek's son. He doesn't really remember his
mother, who died when he was two. One of those all-round types, he is
actually fairly lax about getting things done. Known for his incredible
nonchalance, and deadpan joke delivery. Father of Theresa.
 
Charlemagne -- 354, Son of Cyndia and Beauregard. Possibly the most
brilliant member of the family, Charley is the head of the legal apparatus
in Cobalt. He sits as senior judge and deciding all sorts of cases. His
convoluted mind is utterly impartial, but well-tempered with mercy. He is
periodically called to Lapis Lazuli, to decide some case between two or
more kingdoms. He has also evinced a high degree of martial skill -- most
criminals would rather face the punishments he deals out rather than face
him with a blade. He has never had children, for much the same reason as
Alia.
 
Blaze -- 346, Daughter of Aura and Ptah. Flamboyant Adventuress-Adept.
Another of the free-roving agents of Cobalt, she has an amazing talent for
getting recalcitrant politicians to see the error of their ways. The most
unfazable member of the family, and in the running for the most
well-traveled. She is rumored to collect Princes. Mother of Steven, Freya,
and Cyrano.
 
Jillian -- (327) Daughter of Francesca and Carlos. She died young, having
pushed her shapeshifting ability much too far, contracting a Primal Chaos
infection. No children.
 
Steven -- 308, Son of Blaze and Carlos. A bookish scholar, he has produced
numerous texts on various topics, from a multi-volume history of Cobalt to
bestiaries of the Lapis Lazuli kingdoms to a collection of philisophical
essays on the nature of the metaverse. He has also produced a series of
rather convoluted mysteries which are very good, the only fiction he has
produced he has been satisfied with. He has always lamented his lack of any
skill at poetry. He is nearly asexual, and may be a virgin. No children.
 
Llewellyn -- 302, Son of Aura and Straasha, King of the Water Elementals.
Out of the Cobalt succession altogether, he is the King of Sapphire now. He
is friendly with Cobalt, but firm in the defense of his kingdom, which
comes before his (old) family. Wielder of Water's Edge. Father of Pyar,
Alaric, and Sashelas.
 
Brandy -- (297?) Daughter of Aura and Ptah. Moody, intense redhead with a
casutic tongue. Experimental nature, takes risks most of the family
consider insane. Going to come to a bad end, if she hasn't already. She has
been missing for a long time now. Her cenotaph is in Sapphire, erected by
Llewellyn. Mother of Theresa, Alaric, and Sashelas.
 
Lauren -- 287, Daughter of Finndo and Beryllium. She showed an early talent
for political intrigue, and became an agent of Alia, a fact unknown outside
the family. She employs the techniques of Mata Hari to stay current on
events and influence them for Cobalt, and has been suspected in a few
assassinations, though nothing's ever been proved. The rest of the world
considers her the dilletante she appears, and consider her a bit of a
bimbo. She was the result of the night Beryllium spent with Finndo on his
one hundredth birthday. Due to a childhood illness, she is sterile.
 
Theresa (pronounced tehr-ess'-uh) -- 265, Daughter of Brandy and Hadrian.
Gentlewoman thief, she is has an incredible ability to get into the best
guarded places in Shadow. She is also an amazing escape artist, and
sometimes puts on Houdini-style live performances. She has never slowed
down enough to have children.
                                                                                     
Flavius -- 263, Son of Aura and Derek. The orchestrator of orgies, master
of ceremonies, and planner of all sorts of diversions. A lady-killer, and
those he doesn't kill he wounds a bit. Charming as all hell, and not
pushy. Father of Freya, Valentine, Narcisse, Cyrano, and Leo.
 
Samantha - 251, Daughter of Cynthia and Beauregard. Almost as good a
warrior as her father, she has taken a vow of chastity for some reason
unknown to the family, and won't discuss her reasons. She is presently
Finndo's first mate on his flagship, and is studying sorcery under him. No
children.
 
Pyar -- (238) Son of Beryl and Llewellyn. A dedicated son of Cobalt, he had
decided that his path lay with the fleets, and was working under Cynthia as
the first mate on board her flagship. The fleet was engaged in a protracted
series of combats, apparently intended to isolate the flagship and kill
Cynthia. He died saving her life. No children.
 
Julia -- 220, Daughter of Aura and Derek. She runs Azure Forest, with the
help of her warcat Sturm, the Storm Cats, the Azure Runners (think Arden's
Rangers), and the Azure Staff. She's saved up to buy Erica's were-panthers,
to add them to the Azure Forest's defenses. A wonderfully insightful woman,
she is the best friend of most of her Runners. She has been trying to get
Derek to agree to have another child with her for the past twenty years
(having let him take thirty years to get over Damien's death, which she
feels was more than adequate), but hasn't succeeded yet. Mother of
Catherine and Damien.
 
Isis -- (209) Daughter of Finndo and Aurelia. Potentially the greatest
sorceress Cobalt has ever seen, but no one will ever find out. She was
bodily assumed into the Gem of Fate at puberty, and no wielder of the Gem
has ever been able to contact her. No children.
 
Catherine -- 197, Daughter of Julia and Beauregard. She now lives in the
Lapis Lazuli kingdom of Gameb, and runs the training program for Ornithals
that are turned out as war mounts. She is working on a way to increase
their lifespans, but hasn't succeeded noticeably yet. Mother of Alan.
 
Freya -- 186, Daughter of Blaze and Flavius. The lover of the family. She
loves everything and everyone... and you're next. She's nearly impossible
to refuse, and doesn't have a mean (or shameful) bone in her body. Dazzling
redhead with a body to die for. She can't understand jealousy -- she'll be
right with you. Mother of Narcisse and Natasha.
 
Valentine -- (178) Daughter of Erica and Flavius. A merchant among the
family, she used her inherited charm and business acumen to entice several
extra kingdoms into becoming members of Lapis Lazuli. She died in an
attempt to reopen relations with Shenegh, an ancient enemy of Cobalt. No
children.
 
Guinevere -- 151, Daughter of Aura and Derek. Martial Artist Supreme. Also
Cobalt's closest thing to an innocent, though she is _not_ naive. She is
one of those most often chosen as Regent when Queen Aurelia leaves Cobalt,
and their are rumors that Aurelia might abdicate to her instead of Erica.
There are rumors around that she is a virgin, but the family know
differently. She has no children yet, though.
 
Alaric -- 124, Llewellyn and Brandy's son. Twin of Sashelas.  Llewellyn's
heir, he has already proven his ability to wield Water's Edge.  A very
straight-forward, realistic sort of man. Father of Alan.
                                                                                     
Sashelas -- 124, Llewellyn and Brandy's daughter. Twin of Alaric. She's
another wierdo like Coral, given to shapeshifting, but instead of the skies
it is the ocean depths which draw her attention. She vanishes for years at
a time, though Llewellyn (communicating with local sea life through Water's
Edge) usually knows where she is. She is also known as Sasha. No children.
 
Narcisse -- 122, Daughter of Freya and Flavius. USEless!  Spends most of
her time looking into mirrors. She was lost in Shadow for some ten years
when she found a House of Mirrors at an amusement park. No children.
 
Damien -- (99) Julia and Derek's son. Killed over fifty years ago, Damien's
death is shrouded in mystery. His body was never recovered, but his ghost
haunts Cobalt. His mother has gotten over it, but Derek gets the shakes
everytime he sees the ghost. No children.
 
Cyrano -- 73, son of Flavius and Blaze. The doomed lover, or so he likes to
portray himself. Actually, he's fairly successful with his love life, but
much prefers the mystique and bearing of the darkly moody lover.  He likes
to get into duels over love affairs. The best poet of the family.  He is
presently enjoying a love affair with Coral. No children yet.
 
Natasha -- 68, Daughter of Freya and Beauregard. As sexy as her mother, she
inherited her father's black hair. She also picked up his dedication to
Cobalt, and is trying to decide where she fits in. She is undergoing
training with various of her elders while she thinks about it, and is
currently part of the Arden Runners under Julia. No children yet.
 
Chance -- 50, Daughter of Aura and Hermius, a god of thieves and gamblers.
A reckless gambler. She'd be more an ally of Brandy's if the latter were
more easy-going, but Brandy's too intense for Chance. Good friend of
Cyndia's. She has recently gone missing, and is believed imprisoned. She
has no children.
 
Bast -- 42, Dana and Sturm's daughter (widely believed to be Julia and
Sturm's daughter). The cat-tender, Bast grew up able to speak to the
cats. Indeed, she speaks to them more easily than other humans. She has a
limited shapeshift with which she can assume feline forms. She has yet to
give birth to a litter of kittens from her frequent romps with Sturm and
the Storm Cats, or with Erica's were-panthers. She has an amazing touch
with them (and with all cats), and can easily quiet a badly-wounded Storm
Cat so its wounds can be dressed, as well as train them. Julia's feline
force has shown a significant upgrade in fighting coordination since Bast
started working with them. No children (yet...).
 
Leo -- 35, Coral and Flavius' son. A surprisingly weak-willed individual,
he was somehow subverted by Loviatar (see below), and now serves her,
though it is uncertain whether he does so of his own choice or because he
is in some fashion controlled. His strength is immense, though his control
of it is not that good (Guinevere could take him apart without raising a
sweat). He fled with her when she left Cobalt. He is the only member of the
family never to have mastered the family powers. No children?
 
Loviatar -- 33, Cynthia and Finndo's daughter. The Maiden of Pain, the Ice
Maiden. A true sadist who doesn't give a shit who she hurts, Loviatar has a
standing order out for her execution, issued by Dana. She fled to the
Fractal Realm from Cerulean (see Fractal Realm), but even they couldn't
stand her. She is a free agent in Shadow near Cobalt, and delights in
screwing with their plans, as she hates the whole family, including her
parents. She is known as the Ice Maiden not for her lack of warmth (she
takes lots of folks to bed, but is a black widow), but for her sorcerous
specialty in spells that deal with ice, snow, and cold. No children?
 
Alan -- 4, Son of Alaric and Catherine. Born not long ago at all, he is
presently going through basic schooling in Sapphire. Still a child.
 
 
        Notes:
 
        This family has taken the necessity of `good breeding' too far. The
most suitable candidate for a family member who wishes to have children...
is another family member. They are cross-fertile with no troubles yet.
 
        Osric and Caerlas were brought up by their mothers in competition
with each other. When they reached the age of twenty-five, Ozma realized it
had gone much too far. She tried to step between them during a magical duel
and was killed. Fiona was crazed by the event and slew both of them, and
was then executed (regretfully) by Aurelia. The five children who are left
remind each other not get too mad with the words, "Remember {Caerlas for
the girls, Osric for the boys}". No one mentions Ozma and Fiona anymore, in
case Beryl is listening.
        This series of events may also have been why Coral abandoned the
warrior track and sought out a new direction (which she found in Cerulean &
shapeshifting), to avoid the brewing conflict between she and Erica. The
two get along now, but aren't particularly close.
 
        The royalty of Cobalt aren't as long-lived as their counterparts,
but are living in one of those magic-dense, concentrated slow-time Shadows,
with a time rate of 1:30, Cobalt to Amber time.
        Cobalt is pretty damned strong compared to most Shadows of the
Realm, and would be rated at least as a 4 pt. Primal.  Although it doesn't
have a Pattern (or a Broken Pattern, for that matter), the royal family
does have access to the equivalent powers listed for Conjuration under
Shadow Travel (although they tend not to go too far, playing mostly in
Lapis Lazuli and the nearby Shadows) and Shadow Manipulation. They are
taught as a power-skill, much as Sorcery is (though it isn't Sorcery), and
are two facets of the same power, rather than being separate.
 
        Down in the mountain's depths is the Spiral, an ancient,
anti-entropically powered magical working place. It is walked from the
center outward and it reads those who walk it so as to establish conditions
for whatever work is to be performed at the Doors of Manifestation
(counterparts to the Veils). At the end of the walk, one steps inside or
outside the Spiral, again depending on the work being done, and the Spiral
seals itself into the Circled Spiral.
        It protects itself through a great degree of control over its
locale. Most often, it will recognize those who come to use it unlawfully
(including most anyone outside the family, and some in it), and simply
shunt them to an illusionary reality where they will accomplish whatever it
was they wanted to do and depart believing they have succeeded. It's quite
good at fooling people this way. Other defenses, however, run the gamut of
what magic can provide, though it usually resorts to teleporting offenders
away, or beating them senseless with stone elementals that rise up from the
floor of the chamber itself.
        The Spiral is usable by others, and is occasionally sought out by
cross-Shadow mages with a lot of time to spare.
 
        Royalty (and some 10% of the nobility) ride immense birds of prey
called Ornithals. Their training is both lengthy (taking about five years
on average) and expensive, however, so the mounts are treasured and not
widely available. Fortunately, their metabolisms and internal structures
are known to a degree that actually makes them easier to care for than most
humans. Barring mortal wounds, a trained bird can last up to a century
before growing too old to fly with a rider. They usually die before they
reach one hundred fifteen years old.
        Ornithals come in all sorts of colours, from basic black or grey to
wild spatterings of rainbow that make some birds look like they've been
through an explosion in a paint factory, and then flew through a glitter
shower. Due to their nature, they not only come up with mattes and pastels,
but glosses, metallics and gem shades.
        Two adjacent Lapis Lazuli kingdoms, Gameb and Afkash, specialize in
their breeding and training, Afkash turning out perhaps 85% of the birds
for riding uses, the other 15% being trained in Gameb (by Catherine {see
above} among others) as war mounts. The breeding mews are located in the
Rongene Mountains, jointly held by both kingdoms.
        Most family members are presented with one on their 21st birthday,
usually after having spent about half the previous year with the bird. The
only exceptions have been Julia, who allied with Sturm when she was 15,
Alaric and Sashelas, as they were brought up in Sapphire, and Bast, whose
bird got one look at her, flew off in terror, and has never been seen
since. Llewellyn had one, which was until its death one of the few reasons
Llewellyn ever saw the surface worlds, as it was mewed (eyried?) in Cobalt.
        New birds for family members are usually arranged in advance, due to
the training time involved. Some of the family keep more than one, but such
birds were negotiated for individually by the family member in question.
 
        One of the Shadows on the Cobalt side between there and the Fractal
Realm is the Sten universe. 1:1 with Cobalt, it is the source of Mantis
training (among other things), a combat training that rivals Dorsai for its
efficiency, and has the added advantages of not having to be born into the
Dorsai (for later era values of Dorsai), and it's a training that can be
learned by adults.
 
        This family uses Trumps. The type in use in Cobalt have several
drawbacks. Created sorcerously, they can be detected in use by anyone with
the ability to see sorcerous energies, though they do not fail in low- or
non-magic Shadows. Their range stretches all the way from Cobalt to the
Fractal Realm, but unfortunately infinite Shadow is a LOT bigger than that.
Though they might work within that range of Cobalt from outside their
Shadow realm, they do not compensate well for time differentials. Any
attempt to reconcile a difference in time rates between recipient's locales
fails if that difference is greater than 3:1 or 1:3.
        Finally, while they are permanent items, they must be recharged
(though the fact that they use charges is why they don't fail in the
absence of magic -- they carry their own). Performable by any family member
in harmony with the Spiral, placing a charge into a trump takes about four
hours, varying slightly with Psyche ratings. On the upside of this downer,
each charge will last for the entire duration of any single call, charges
may be placed into more than one card at a time (no single card gets more
than one at once, but you can do your whole deck {or several decks} at a
time), and each card can hold an infinite amount of charges. Anyone joining
a contact does so at the will of the person they are touching, who must
expend a charge to let them join (so someone who doesn't have their card
for the other end out, or who has no charges left in that particular card,
cannot be joined).
        Dana, Aura, Beryl, Cynthia, Derek, Finndo, Blaze, Brandy, Julia,
Alia, and Beau have enough skill with the Trumps to broadcast a
non-interactive message to several people at once, expending a charge from
each card in whatever stack they hold (Thus, if you don't need to tell it
to someone, you needn't hold their card and expend a charge from it). The
skill is pretty much a requirement for taking any permanent post in defense
of Cobalt.

From stormy@chess.Haven.ORG  Mon Jul 29 08:20:58 1996
Date: Mon, 29 Jul 1996 08:21:17 -0400
To: dkap@haven.org
Subject: Cobalt yet again...
Reply-To: Stormy@haven.org
From: "Morgan at Deus Ex Machina, Ltd." <Stormy@haven.org>
                                                                                     
 
        Okay, I haven't added (or killed off) a lot more kids (though their
are a few new ones), but I got a lot of work done. The folks that do exist
now have ages (except for Dana and Aurelia, but they're special) and thus a
birth order.
        Also, the `Elders' (in quotes because a lot of the kids are older'n
a lot of them) have proposed parents. These are the shakiest ground in this
proposal so far, so any commentary is happily welcomed.
        Trump rules, notes on the birds (called Ornithals), and a note on
Shadow are all newly included in the notes section. The time rate's also
been decided.
        The places and things sections are still here in case you need them
for reference, but nothing in them has changed recently. They have been
moved to the end of the file.
        Talk to me...
 
                - Stormy, who is spending WAY too much time on this
 
 
 
        The Royal Family: Name, age (in parentheses if dead or gone),
parentage, notes.
 
Dana -- ???? Ancient, abdicated Queen of Cobalt. Designer of the Spiral. A
charming old lady, she is an old grandmotherly type. She doesn't get out
much anymore, and leaves the governance of Cobalt to her daughter.
 
        Bast -- 42, Dana and Sturm's daughter (widely believed to be Julia
and Sturm's daughter). The cat-tender, Bast grew up able to speak to the
cats. Indeed, she speaks to them more easily than other humans. She has a
limited shapeshift with which she can assume feline forms. She has yet to
give birth to a litter of kittens from her frequent romps with Sturm and
the Storm Cats, or with Erica's were-panthers. She has an amazing touch
with them (and with all cats), and can easily quiet a badly-wounded Storm
Cat so its wounds can be dressed, as well as train them. Julia's feline
force has shown a significant upgrade in fighting coordination since Bast
started working with them.
 
Aurelia -- ???, Daughter of Dana and an unknown elder god. Aura to her
friends, she rules Cobalt. She's an amazing one for taking care of problems
once they happen, but she tends not to foresee them. Powerful as all get
out. Current wielder of the Gem of Fate.
 
        Alia -- 399, Daughter of Aura and Benedict. Head of the secret
police in Cobalt, running a Shadow of Florimel's organization. She is the
assassin who knows _every_thing. She is frighteningly unemotional, and
wholly uninterested in having children, who might be used as a lever
against her. Rumored to be a full Shapeshifter.
 
        Isis -- (209) Daughter of Finndo and Aurelia. Potentially the
greatest sorceress Cobalt has ever seen, but no one will ever find out. She
was bodily assumed into the Gem of Fate at puberty, and no wielder of the
Gem has ever been able to contact her.
 
Beryl -- 737, Daughter of Aura and Mortalius, the Warlord of the Fractal
Realm. Ancient Warrior. She is Master of Arms for Cobalt, and is the
coordinator for the defenses of that place with Cynthia, Finndo, and Julia,
also working closely with Ylwin (Marshal of Sapphire) and Lapis Lazuli's
force commanders.
                                                                                     
        Beryllium -- 399, Beryl and Benedict's daughter. Saddled with the
unfortunate nickname of Berry, she's quite a level-headed warrior. She
bears a shape-shifting weapon (named Selar), which will become anything she
wishes it to as long as it fits the paradigms of whatever Shadow she is in.
        Her first child was stillborn, and she has had no further children.
 
Ozma -- (714) Daughter of Aura and Mortalius. Dead
 
        Osric -- (399) Ozma and Benedict's son. Dead.
 
Fiona -- (712) Daughter of Aura and Mortalius. Dead.
 
        Caerlas -- (399) Fiona and Benedict's daughter. Dead.
 
                Hadrian - 310, Caerlas and Derek's son. One of those
all-round types, he is actually fairly lax about getting things done. Known
for his incredible nonchalance, and deadpan joke delivery.
 
Erica -- 603, Daughter of Aura and Indra, a god of storms and rulership.
Diplomat par excellance. Her agents are were-black panthers. She was also
Heir Apparent before her recent incapacity, as Beryl removed herself from
consideration following the deaths of her sisters. A frequent Regent. She
was mortally injured during an expedition to find Chance, and is not
expected to recover.
 
        Beauregard -- 399, Erica and Benedict's son. A PC.
 
        Francesca -- 382, Erica and Derek's daughter. She disdains the magical
arts in pursuit of more physically-oriented power, though she hasn't
neglected the family's own basic powers.
 
Coral -- 571, Daughter of Aura and Indra. She could have been a warrior to
rival Erica or Blaze, but has instead focused her attentions and energy on
Cerulean instead. Wearer of the Cerulean Crown. She is an accomplished
shapeshifter, poet, architect, musician, and the best fortune-teller of the
family. She's not a bad warrior, just nowhere near as good as she could be
if she put her mind to it.
 
        Carlos -- 399, Coral and Benedict's son. A shapeshifter as well,
but far more pragmatic than his mother. Has little interest in Cerulean.
Known for his good taste in clothing, and his engineering skills.
 
        Leo -- 35, Coral and Flavius' son. A surprisingly weak-willed
individual, he was somehow subverted by Loviatar (see below), and now
serves her, though it is uncertain whether he does so of his own choice or
because he is in some fashion controlled. His strength is immense, though
his control of it is not that good (Guinevere could take him apart without
raising a sweat). He fled with her when she left Cobalt. He is the only
member of the family never to have mastered the family powers.
 
Cynthia -- 526, Daughter of Aura and Indra. A fascinating woman, she has
often been compared to a beautiful snake. She is usually encased in black
leather that would impress a cenobite. Admiral of the Northern Fleet.
 
        Cyndia -- 399, Cynthia and Benedict's daughter. Also called Cindy.
She has inherited her mother's deviousness, but tends more to practical
jokes than torture. Not that her mother would torture anyone, mind you...
 
        Loviatar -- 33, Cynthia and Finndo's daughter. The Maiden of Pain,
the Ice Maiden. A true sadist who doesn't give a shit who she hurts,
Loviatar has a standing order out for her execution, issued by Dana. She
fled to the Fractal Realm from Cerulean (see Fractal Realm), but even they
couldn't stand her. She is a free agent in Shadow near Cobalt, and delights
in screwing with their plans, as she hates the whole family, including her
parents. She is known as the Ice Maiden not for her lack of warmth (she
takes lots of folks to bed, but is a black widow), but for her sorcerous
specialty in spells that deal with ice, snow, and cold.
 
Derek -- 485, Son of Aura and Indra. Captain of the Palace Guard. Has a
thing for Coral, but she's oblivious. Wields an immense magical axe named
Syrbal, which can split mountains and cut canyons in flat land. She is
known for feats of tremendous feats of Endurance.
 
Finndo -- 388, Son of Aura and Ptah, a Lord of Creation. Physical and
psychic powerhouse. The Wizard-Admiral of the Southern Fleet. Canny,
quick-witted, and beloved by the sailors under him, Finndo is happiest at
sea. He racks spells capable of recreating the ships in his fleet when
necessary.
 
Blaze -- 346, Daughter of Aura and Ptah. Flamboyant Adventuress-Adept.
Another of the free-roving agents of Cobalt, she has an amazing talent for
getting recalcitrant politicians to see the error of their ways. The most
unfazable member of the family, and in the running for the most
well-traveled. She is rumored to collect Princes.
 
        Freya -- 186, Daughter of Blaze and Flavius. The lover of the
family. She loves everything and everyone... and you're next. She's nearly
impossible to refuse, and doesn't have a mean (or shameful) bone in her
body. Dazzling redhead with a body to die for. She can't understand
jealousy -- she'll be right with you.
 
                Narcisse -- 122, Daughter of Freya and Flavius. USEless!
Spends most of her time looking into mirrors. She was lost in Shadow for
some ten years when she found a House of Mirrors at an amusement park.
 
        Cyrano -- 73, son of Flavius and Blaze. The doomed lover, or so he
likes to portray himself. Actually, he's fairly successful with his love
life, but much prefers the mystique and bearing of the darkly moody lover.
He likes to get into duels over love affairs. The best poet of the family.
Has enjoyed a long love affair with Coral.
 
Llewellyn -- 302, Son of Aura and Straasha, King of the Water Elementals.
Out of the Cobalt succession altogether, he is the King of Sapphire now. He
is friendly with Cobalt, but firm in the defense of his kingdom, and
Sapphire comes before his (old) family. Wielder of Water's Edge.
 
        Alaric -- 124, Llewellyn and Brandy's son. Twin of Sashelas.
Llewellyn's heir, he has already proven his ability to wield Water's Edge.
A very straight forward sort of man.
 
        Sashelas -- 124, Llewellyn and Brandy's daughter. Twin of Alaric.
She's another wierdo like Coral, given to shapeshifting, but instead of the
skies it is the ocean depths which draw her attention. She vanishes for
years at a time, though Llewellyn (communicating with local sea life
through Water's Edge) usually knows where she is.
 
Brandy -- (297?) Daughter of Aura and Ptah. Moody, gorgeous redhead.
Experimental nature, takes risks most of the family consider insane. Going
to come to a bad end, if she hasn't already. She has been missing for a
long time now. Her cenotaph is in Sapphire, erected by Llewellyn.
 
Flavius -- 263, Son of Aura and Derek. The orchestrator of orgies, master
of ceremonies, planner of all sorts of diversions. A lady-killer, and those
he doesn't kill he wounds a bit. Charming as all hell, and not pushy.
 
Julia -- 220, Daughter of Aura and Derek. She runs Azure Forest, with the
help of her warcat Sturm, the Storm Cats, the Azure Runners (think Arden's
Rangers) and the Azure Staff. She's saving up to buy Erica's were-panthers,
to add them to the Azure Forest's defenses.
 
        Damien -- (99) Julia and Derek's son. Killed over a century ago,
Damien's death is shrouded in mystery. His body was never recovered, but
his ghost haunts Cobalt. His mother has gotten over it, but Derek gets the
shakes everytime he sees the ghost.
 
Guinevere -- 151, Daughter of Aura and Derek. Martial Artist Supreme. Also
Cobalt's closest thing to an innocent, though she is _not_ naive. She is
one of those most often chosen as Regent when Queen Aurelia leaves Cobalt,
and their are rumors that Aurelia might abdicate to her instead of Erica.
There are rumors around that she is a virgin, but the family know
differently.
 
Chance -- 50, Daughter of Aura and Hermius, a god of thieves and gamblers.
A reckless gambler. She'd be more an ally of Brandy's if the latter were
more easy-going, but Brandy's too intense for Chance. Good friend of
Cyndia's. She has recently gone missing, and is believed imprisoned.

        Notes:
                                                                                     
        This family has taken the necessity of `good breeding' too far. The
most suitable candidate for a family member... is another family member.
They are cross-fertile with no troubles yet.
 
        Osric and Caerlas were brought up by their mothers in competition
with each other. Realizing it had gone much too far, Ozma tried to step
between them during a magical duel and was killed. Fiona was crazed by the
event and slew both of them, and was then executed (regretfully) by
Aurelia. The four children who are left remind each other not get too mad
with the words, "Remember {Caerlas for the girls, Osric for the boys}". No
one mentions Ozma and Fiona anymore, in case Beryl is listening.
        This event may also have been why Coral abandoned the warrior track
and sought out a new direction (which she found in Cerulean & shapeshifting),
to avoid the brewing conflict between she and Erica. The two get along now,
but aren't particularly close.
 
        The folk of Cobalt aren't as long-lived as their counterparts, but
are living in one of those magic-dense, concentrated slow-time Shadows,
with a time rate of 1:30, Cobalt to Amber time.
        Cobalt is pretty damned strong compared to most Shadows of the
Realm, and would be rated at least as a 4 pt. Primal.  Although it doesn't
have a Pattern (or a Broken Pattern, for that matter), the royal family
does have access to the equivalent powers listed for Conjuration under
Shadow Travel (although they tend not to go too far, playing mostly in the
locales representing the local equivalents of the Golden Circle) and Shadow
Manipulation. They are taught as a power-skill, much as Sorcery is, though
it isn't Sorcery.
 
        Down in the mountain's depths is the Spiral, an ancient,
anti-entropically powered magical working place. It is walked from the
center outward and it reads those who walk it so as to establish conditions
for whatever work is to be performed at the Doors of Manifestation
(counterparts to the Veils). At the end of the walk, one steps inside or
outside the Spiral, again depending on the work being done, and the Spiral
seals itself into the Circled Spiral.
        It protects itself through a great degree of control over its
locale. Most often, it will recognize those who come to use it unlawfully
(including most anyone outside the family, and some in it), and simply
shunt them to an illusionary reality where they will accomplish whatever it
was they wanted to do and depart believing they have succeeded. It's quite
good at fooling people this way. Other defenses, however, run the gamut of
what magic can provide, though it usually resorts to teleporting offenders
away, or beating them senseless with stone elementals that rise up from the
floor of the chamber itself.
        The Spiral is usable by others, and is occasionally sought out by
cross-Shadow mages with a lot of time to spare.
 
        Royalty (and some 10% of the nobility) ride immense birds of prey
called Ornithals. Their training is both lengthy (taking about five years
on average) and expensive, however, so the mounts are treasured and not
widely available. Fortunately, their metabolisms and internal structures
are known to a degree that actually makes them easier to care for than most
humans. Barring mortal wounds, a trained bird can last up to a century
before growing too old to fly with a rider. They usually die before they
reach one hundred fifteen years old.
        Ornithals come in all sorts of colours, from basic black or grey to
wild spatterings of rainbow that make some birds look like they've been
through an explosion in a paint factory, and then flew through a glitter
shower. Due to their nature, they not only come up with mattes and pastels,
but glosses, metallics and gem shades.
        Two of the Lapis Lazuli kingdoms specialize in their breeding and
training, one turning out perhaps 85% of the birds for riding uses, the
other 15% being turned out as war mounts.
        Most family members are presented with one on their 21st birthday,
usually after having spent about half the previous year with the bird. The
only exceptions have been Julia, who allied with Sturm when she was 15,
Alaric and Sashelas, as they were brought up in Sapphire, and Bast, whose
bird got one look at her, flew off in terror, and has never been seen
since. Llewellyn had one, which was until its death one of the few reasons
Llewellyn ever saw the surface worlds, as it was mewed (eyried?) in Cobalt.
        New birds for family members are usually arranged in advance, due to
the training time involved. Some of the family keep more than one, but such
birds were negotiated for individually by the family member in question.
 
        One of the Shadows on the Cobalt side between there and the Fractal
Realm is the Sten universe. 1:1 with Cobalt, it is the source of Mantis
training (among other things), a combat training that rivals Dorsai for its
efficiency, and has the added advantages of not having to be born into the
Dorsai (for later era values of Dorsai), and it's a training that can be
learned by adults.
 
        This family uses Trumps. The type in use in Cobalt have several
drawbacks. Created sorcerously, they can be detected in use by anyone with
the ability to see sorcerous energies, though they do not fail in low- or
non-magic Shadows. Their range stretches all the way from Cobalt to the
Fractal Realm, but unfortunately infinite Shadow is a LOT bigger than that.
Though they might work within that range of Cobalt from outside their
Shadow realm, they do not compensate well for time differentials. Any
attempt to reconcile a difference in time rates between recipient's locales
fails if that difference is greater than 3:1 or 1:3.
        Finally, while they are permanent items, they must be recharged
(though the fact that they use charges is why they don't fail in the
absence of magic -- they carry their own). Performable by any family member
in harmony with the Spiral, placing a charge into a trump takes about four
hours, varying slightly with Psyche ratings.  On the upside of this
particular downer, each charge will last for the entire duration of any
single call, charges may be placed into more than one card at a time (no
single card gets more than one at once, but you can do your whole deck {or
several decks} at a time), and each card can hold an infinite amount of
charges. Anyone joining a contact does so at the will of the person they
are touching, who must expend a charge to let them join (so someone who
doesn't have their card for the other end out, or who has no charges left
in that particular card, cannot be joined).
        Dana, Aura, Beryl, Cynthia, Derek, Finndo, Blaze, Brandy, Julia,
Alia, and Beau have enough skill with the Trumps to broadcast a
non-interactive message to several people at once, expending a charge from
each card in whatever stack they hold (Thus, if you don't need to tell it
to someone, you needn't hold their card and expend a charge). The skill is
pretty much a requirement for taking any permanent post in defense of
Cobalt.
 
 
        (Beyond this point, nothing has been changed)

