Date: Thu, 4 May 95 16:22:18 -0400
From: "The Demonic Attorney" <mstein@fdic.gov>
To: dkap@talon.haven.org
Subject: Encyclopedia entry
X-Incognito-Sn: 303
X-Incognito-Format: VERSION=1.75 ENCRYPTED=NO
 
Ronin
=====
 
The shadow Ronin is a pre-industrial level world with a modest but
varied, primarily agrarian culture. It is roughly the size
Columbian era explorers believed Florimel's Earth to be,
circumference about 10,000 nautical miles.  Its mean temperature in
temperate zones is slightly (about 2 deg C) warmer than shadow
Earth. It is a shadow of island nations, with no land mass larger
than Greenland.
 
Population:  Ronin sustains a stable population of three million or
so intelligent humanoid beings. Though primarily agriculturally
inclined, fishing and some maritime trade does go on among the
sundry peoples, themselves as diverse in culture as Earth's Ireland
and Japan -- though closely resembling neither, their cultural
'flavor' is vaguely reminiscent of various known cultures. Nothing
too alien; at once new and pleasantly familiar. (Rhiannon, for the
most part, chooses not to go among them very often, preferring to
engage in minimal interference with the locals.) The life energy of
the population and highly diverse biosphere sustains the mana for
a rudimentary body of elemental sorcery.

Rhiannon's personal area:  In the subtropic region of the southern
hemisphere rests an island called Pente roughly the size of Ireland
and Britain combined. Legends abound concerning this island;
virtually every religion has some tale about the iniquities of its
native populace, dabbling in high sorcery and technology, scoffing
the local moral codes, having too much fun and so on (though very
few of the native societies have attitudes that could be called
Puritanical). Eventually the gods of the various peoples of Ronin
came to a consensus and smote the island with natural disasters
that vary from one tale to the next, but invariably obliterated the
infidel to the last man. Best guess puts this scourge at about 700
years ago in time absolute -- a round millenium for the locals, as
their time accelerated to its present rate about 40 Amberite years
ago. The dread inspired by the tale keeps all but the most
adventuresome away from the area, and there are just enough
disappearances to sustain the place's legend.
 
Rhiannon did, indeed, find Pente uninhabited...but then, she was
looking for such a place, in a world with a fair amount of life
energy and little impetus toward technical development. She has had
to manipulate the surroundings very little in ways the locals would
notice, actively deterring exploration of Pente just enough to
sustain the place's own legend. Her main effort in 'customizing'
Ronin has been to insulate it from most outside interference.
 
To a viewer at sea, Pente looks desolate and forbidding. This is a
powerful (and permanent) illusion, prompting the indigenous peoples
to see what they expect to see -- a thoroughly blighted and useless
land. On the other side of the curtain, however, Pente is almost
idyllic. The climate is consistently mild enough to accommodate
those who disdain the encumbrance of clothing (or magic better
performed without such restraints on the body), and a reasonably
healthy vegetarian diet can be supported by the naturally occurring
flora, not to mention the lovely diversity of blossoming plants.
Game animals are present in sustainable population, dispersed
enough to make hunting a bit of a challenge.
 
The few open access routes through Shadow do *not* bring one
directly to the island, but land one instead further south in the
temperate zones of the hemisphere or in the similar latitudes of
the north. From there one must sail (a journey of days from the
south or weeks from the north) or fly to the area Rhiannon calls
her own.
 
[Running out of steam here, David. How much more would you like?
Details will probably trickle in as we go further...]

---
               mstein@fdic.gov is the dehumanized version of
    Mark Eric Stein, Esq. -- Disposable Cog in the Federal Machine <tm>
          ---------- ========== ********** ========== ----------
Then, Lady, I do what Kieron the Conqueror did upon the cliffs of Adrilankha.
                           I await the morrow.

